naphthalidine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
oncogen	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
a- naphthylamine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
carcinogens	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
carcinogen	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
alpha naphthylamine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
cancer causing agents	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
sar iso ang	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
antihypertensive drug	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
anti hypertensives	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
antihypertensive drugs	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
anti hypertensive drug	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
sarile	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
antihypertensives drugs	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
dipyridyl	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
reagents indicators	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
acetohydroxy acid reductoisomerase	An enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine. It converts 2-acetolactate into 3-hydroxy-2-oxo-isovalerate. Also acts on 2-hydroxy-2-acetobutyrate to form 2-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-methylvalerate. EC 5.4.99.3.
enzymes	Biological molecules that possess catalytic activity. They may occur naturally or be synthetically created. Enzymes are usually proteins, however CATALYTIC RNA and CATALYTIC DNA molecules have also been identified.
alpha-aminoadipic acid	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
excitatory amino acid antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
aa antag excitatory	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
aminopurine	A purine that is an isomer of ADENINE (6-aminopurine).
antimetabolite	A substance that competes with, replaces or inhibits a specific metabolite of a cell and thereby interferes with the cell's normal metabolic functioning.
koshland reagent	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
reagents and indicators	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
koshland's reagent i	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
indicators reagents	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
mesna	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
maid regimen	A regimen consisting of doxorubicin, ifosfamide, dacarbazine and mesna used to treat unresectable soft tissue sarcoma.
tic regimen	A regimen consisting of paclitaxel, ifosfamide, mesna and carboplatin used as salvage therapy for the treatment of advanced-stage testicular cancer; also used for the treatment of unresectable and recurrent squamous cell head and neck cancer.
product containing mesna	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
protective drug	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
mesnum	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
protective agents	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
mucolytics	Any agent that dissolves mucus, making it less thick and sticky. This makes it easier for the mucus to drain from the upper respiratory system, be removed through coughing, or be transported through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.
antidote	Agents counteracting or neutralizing the action of POISONS.
pharmaceutical / biologic product	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
cytoprotective agent	Agents administered before, with, or after cancer therapy to reduce or prevent damage or toxicity to the normal cells. (NCI)
cystitis	Inflammation of the URINARY BLADDER, either from bacterial or non-bacterial causes. Cystitis is usually associated with painful urination (dysuria), increased frequency, urgency, and suprapubic pain.
drug toxicity	An adverse effect of a drug used therapeutically or diagnostically.
hemorrhage	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
protectants	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
tip regimen	A regimen consisting of paclitaxel, ifosfamide, mesna and cisplatin used for the treatment of advanced-stage testicular cancer; also used for the treatment of unresectable and recurrent squamous cell head and neck cancer.
fda unii code terminology	The terminology that includes terms pertaining to FDA/USP Substance Registration System (SRS), which is to support health information technology initiatives by generating unique ingredient identifiers (UNIIs) for substances in drugs, biologics, foods, and devices.
protectant	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
fast scarlet base b	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
cptac medical history form	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on Medical History Form data.
ercalcidiol	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
bone density conservation agents	Medel som hämmar benvävnadsresorption och/eller gynnar benmineralisering och benbildning. De används för läkning av frakturer och för att behandla metaboliska benvävssjukdomar.
dopac - dihydroxyphenylacetic acid	A deaminated metabolite of LEVODOPA.
catecholamine metabolite	Molecules created during the catabolism of catecholamine hormones. Increased concentrations of these metabolic products in plasma and urine may indicate the presence of hormone-producing pheochromocytomas or paragangliomas.
l-dops	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
antiparkinson agents	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
vasopressors droxidopa	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
threo dops	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
sympathomimetic agents	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
product containing droxidopa	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
sympathomimetic agent	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
droxidopa	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
amino acid derivatives	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
threo-dops	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
antiparkinson drugs	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
amino acids	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
sympathomimetic	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
catecholamine	A general class of ortho-dihydroxyphenylalkylamines derived from TYROSINE.
postural hypotension	A significant drop in BLOOD PRESSURE after assuming a standing position. Orthostatic hypotension is a finding, and defined as a 20-mm Hg decrease in systolic pressure or a 10-mm Hg decrease in diastolic pressure 3 minutes after the person has risen from supine to standing. Symptoms generally include DIZZINESS, blurred vision, and SYNCOPE.
antiparkinsonian agents	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
antiparkinson agent	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
tenamfetamina	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
hallucinogens	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
beta-alanine	An amino acid formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine. Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been demonstrated, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. A rare genetic disorder, hyper-beta-alaninemia, has been reported.
benfuracarb	The carbamate agent benfuracarb.
.beta.-alanine	An amino acid formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine. Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been demonstrated, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. A rare genetic disorder, hyper-beta-alaninemia, has been reported.
netarsudil	An amino-isoquinoline amide and inhibitor of Rho kinase (ROCK) and norepinephrine transporter (NET), with potential intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering activity. Upon ocular administration, netarsudil inhibits ROCK and the Rho pathway, increases aqueous humor (AH) outflow via the trabecular pathway, and lowers IOP. In addition, netarsudil may lower IOP by decreasing episcleral venous pressure and decreasing the production of aqueous humor through inhibition of NET.
aminoacid	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
alanine	A non-essential amino acid that occurs in high levels in its free state in plasma. It is produced from pyruvate by transamination. It is involved in sugar and acid metabolism, increases IMMUNITY, and provides energy for muscle tissue, BRAIN, and the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
beta-alanine measurement	The determination of the amount of beta alanine present in a sample.
alanines	A non-essential amino acid that occurs in high levels in its free state in plasma. It is produced from pyruvate by transamination. It is involved in sugar and acid metabolism, increases IMMUNITY, and provides energy for muscle tissue, BRAIN, and the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
nutritional and metabolic diseases	A collective term for nutritional disorders resulting from poor absorption or nutritional imbalance, and metabolic disorders resulting from defects in biosynthesis (ANABOLISM) or breakdown (CATABOLISM) of endogenous substances.
beta alanine	An amino acid formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine. Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been demonstrated, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. A rare genetic disorder, hyper-beta-alaninemia, has been reported.
meglutol	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
anticholesteremic agents	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
hmg-coa reductase inhibitor	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
enzyme inhibitor-containing product	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
statin-containing product	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
enzyme inhibitors	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
hypolipidemic agent	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
cholesterol lowering drugs	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
para-aminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
para aminobenzoate	member of the vitamin B complex although not an essential nutrient for humans; formerly a common sunscreen agent until found to also be a sensitizer; potassium salt is used therapeutically in fibrotic skin disorders.
aminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
potassium aminobenzoate	The potassium salt form of aminobenzoate, with anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic activities. Aminobenzoate potassium increases oxygen uptake at the tissue level and may enhance monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, which requires oxygen as a substrate. Enhanced MAO activity maybe accountable for the prevention or regression of fibrosis, which may occur due to too much serotonin or too little MAO activity. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1736" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1736" NCI Thesaurus)
product containing para-aminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
vitamin b complex	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
amino acid derivative-containing product	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
p aminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
sunscreen	Chemical or physical agents that protect the skin from sunburn and erythema by absorbing or blocking ultraviolet radiation.
trichochromogenic factor	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
amino acid derivative product	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
acide méfénamique	A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent with analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties. It is an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase.
drug hypersensitivity nos	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
sunburns	An injury to the skin causing erythema, tenderness, and sometimes blistering and resulting from excessive exposure to the sun. The reaction is produced by the ultraviolet radiation in sunlight.
para-aminobenzoic acid product	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
dalfampridine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
[d]convulsions	Clinical or subclinical disturbances of cortical function due to a sudden, abnormal, excessive, and disorganized discharge of brain cells. Clinical manifestations include abnormal motor, sensory and psychic phenomena. Recurrent seizures are usually referred to as EPILEPSY or "seizure disorder."
cns stimulants dalfampridine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
renal insufficiency	Stavy snížené funkce ledvin, kdy se zhoršuje jejich schopnost filtrace, koncentrace moči, udržování elektrolytové rovnováhy, krevního tlaku a metabolismu vápníku. Renální insuficience se může klasifikovat podle stupně poškození ledvin (proteinurie) a podle snížení glomerulární filtrace.
fampridina	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
potassium channel blocker	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
fampridine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
cation channel blockers	A group of agents that block the influx or efflux of positively charged ions through cell membrane.
pesticide	Chemicals used to destroy pests of any sort. The concept includes fungicides (FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL); INSECTICIDES; RODENTICIDES; etc.
potassium channel blocker product	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
pesticides	Chemicals used to destroy pests of any sort. The concept includes fungicides (FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL); INSECTICIDES; RODENTICIDES; etc.
k channel block	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
potassium channel blocker-containing product	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
gbl - gamma-butyrolactone	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
solvent	Liquids that dissolve other substances (solutes), generally solids, without any change in chemical composition, as, water containing sugar. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
para hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
hydroxylase	Widely distributed enzymes that carry out oxidation-reduction reactions in which one atom of the oxygen molecule is incorporated into the organic substrate; the other oxygen atom is reduced and combined with hydrogen ions to form water. They are also known as monooxygenases or hydroxylases. These reactions require two substrates as reductants for each of the two oxygen atoms. There are different classes of monooxygenases depending on the type of hydrogen-providing cosubstrate (COENZYMES) required in the mixed-function oxidation.
gamma hydroxybutyrate	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
sodium oxybate	The sodium salt of 4-hydroxybutyric acid. It is used for both induction and maintenance of ANESTHESIA.
oxybate	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
alcohol drinking habit	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
cataplexy	A condition characterized by transient weakness or paralysis of somatic musculature triggered by an emotional stimulus or physical exertion. Cataplexy is frequently associated with NARCOLEPSY. During a cataplectic attack, there is a marked reduction in muscle tone similar to the normal physiologic hypotonia that accompanies rapid eye movement sleep (SLEEP, REM). (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p396)
central nervous system agents	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
para hydroxyphenylpyruvate oxidase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate plus oxygen to homogentisic acid and carbon dioxide. EC 1.13.11.27.
dioxygenase	Icke hembärande, järnhaltiga enzymer som tillför substratet två syreatomer. Enzymerna är viktiga för biosyntesen av flavonoider, gibberelliner och hyoscyamin, samt för nedbrytningen av aromatiska kolväten. EC 1.14.12.-.
inosinate phosphatase	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
esterases	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of an ester bond and result in the addition of water to the resulting molecules.
icosapentaenoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
ncit antineoplastic agent terminology	A terminology subset in NCI Thesaurus (NCIt) containing any agent that has known or potential antineoplastic activity. The subset includes FDA approved antineoplastic agents, agents that either are or once were in clinical trial (CT) specifically for their antineoplastic activity as well as some additional investigational agents that may have antineoplastic activity. Included in this list are conventional antineoplastic agents, specific tumor-targeting agents, and cancer immunotherapeutics. Excluded from this list are: agents that treat cancer-related conditions; cancer diagnostics or agents used for tumor imaging; agents that treat drug-related adverse effects; any agent that increases an antineoplastic agent's efficacy or pharmacokinetic profile but does not have an antineoplastic effect by itself, including immunoadjuvants that boost efficacy of antineoplastic vaccines; and antineoplastic agents that are conjugated with a radioisotope and are in CT for efficacy and/or ADME studies.
eicosapentanoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
nci drug dictionary terminology	Terminology created to support the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Drug Dictionary.
eicosapentaenoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
icosapent ethyl	A highly purified omega-3 fatty acid that can decrease serum triglyceride levels. Ethyl icosapentate reduces serum triglycerides without an increase in LDL cholesterol, but increases the cholesterol and triglyceride content in skeletal muscle. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C72986" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C72986" NCI Thesaurus)
product containing eicosapentaenoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
increased eicosapentaenoic acid diet	Increase in the eicosapentaenoic acid content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of eicosapentaenoic acid for the individual.
fish oil	Oils high in unsaturated fats extracted from the bodies of fish or fish parts, especially the LIVER. Those from the liver are usually high in VITAMIN A. The oils are used as DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS. They are also used in soaps and detergents and as protective coatings.
oxytryptophan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
atypical antidepressants	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
oxitriptan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
tryptophan	An essential amino acid that is necessary for normal growth in infants and for NITROGEN balance in adults. It is a precursor of INDOLE ALKALOIDS in plants. It is a precursor of SEROTONIN (hence its use as an antidepressant and sleep aid). It can be a precursor to NIACIN, albeit inefficiently, in mammals.
ticlopidine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
thienopyridines	A class of agents that target at platelet ADP receptor or purinergic receptor P2RY12 with antiplatelet activity.
ticlopidine	An effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation commonly used in the placement of STENTS in CORONARY ARTERIES.
ticlopidine product	An effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation commonly used in the placement of STENTS in CORONARY ARTERIES.
disorder of hemostasis	Hemorrhagic and thrombotic disorders that occur as a consequence of abnormalities in blood coagulation due to a variety of factors such as COAGULATION PROTEIN DISORDERS; BLOOD PLATELET DISORDERS; BLOOD PROTEIN DISORDERS or nutritional conditions.
intracranial embolism thrombosis	Embolism eller trombos i blodkärl som försörjer vävnaderna innanför skallbenet. Orsaken till embolismen går att finna såväl utanför som innanför skallbenet. Trombos kan uppstå antingen i artärer eller vener.
product containing ticlopidine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
drug allergy	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
ticlopidine hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
thromboembolic disease	Obstruction of a blood vessel (embolism) by a blood clot (THROMBUS) in the blood stream.
blood platelet antiaggregant	Drugs or agents which antagonize or impair any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation, whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense-granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin-thromboxane system.
chlorobenzene	benzene derivatives with chlorine substituted at one or more positions.
antiplatelet drug	An agent that inhibits platelet aggregation and reduces coagulation in the circulatory system.
ácido aminocapróico	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
national cancer institute drug dictionary	Terminology created to support the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Drug Dictionary.
omega-aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
antifibrinolytic agent	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
fibrinolytic inhibitor	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
antifibrinolytic agents	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
omega-aminohexanoic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
anticoagulants	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
haemostatic agent	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
epsilon-aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
hemostatic drug	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
epsilon s	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
haemorrhage	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
epsilon aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
amino acids nos	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
anticoagulant drugs	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
hematological agents anticoagulants	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
hemostatic agent	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
mercaptopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
unspecified disorder of liver	Pathological processes of the LIVER.
lymphoma small cleaved diffuse	Any of a group of malignant tumors of lymphoid tissue that differ from HODGKIN DISEASE, being more heterogeneous with respect to malignant cell lineage, clinical course, prognosis, and therapy. The only common feature among these tumors is the absence of giant REED-STERNBERG CELLS, a characteristic of Hodgkin's disease.
hepatic metabolism [pk]	sum of chemical changes that occur within the liver of an organism consisting of anabolism (biosynthesis) and catabolism; the buildup and breakdown of molecules for utilization by the liver.
antimetab antineopl	Antimetabolites that are useful in cancer chemotherapy.
azathioprine	An immunosuppressive agent used in combination with cyclophosphamide and hydroxychloroquine in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), this substance has been listed as a known carcinogen. (Merck Index, 11th ed)
immune suppressants	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
mercaptopurinum	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
nucleic acid synthesis inhibitor	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
immunosuppressive agents	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
mercapurin	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
purine inhibitors	An antimetabolite that affects the metabolism and utilization of purines.
mercaptopurine product	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
purine antagonist	An antimetabolite that affects the metabolism and utilization of purines.
enzyme inhibition	Enzyme Inhibition involves interference with, or restraint of, the function of a biological molecule that possesses catalytic activity.
ctrp terminology	Terminology that is used to support NCI's Clinical Trials Reporting Program (CTRP), a database that captures the required reporting data for all NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
anti-bapde	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
oncogens	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
oxyquinol	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
antiprotozoal	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
oxyquinoline	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
chlorquinaldol	Local anti-infective agent used for skin, gastrointestinal, and vaginal infections with fungi, protozoa, and certain bacteria. In animals, it causes central nervous system damage and is not administered parenterally. It is also used as antiseptic, fungistat, or deodorant.
product containing iodoquinol	One of the halogenated 8-quinolinols widely used as an intestinal antiseptic, especially as an antiamebic agent. It is also used topically in other infections and may cause CNS and eye damage. It is known by very many similar trade names world-wide.
antibacterial agent	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
beta-quinol	1,4-dihydroxybenzene.
calcimycin	An ionophorous, polyether antibiotic from Streptomyces chartreusensis. It binds and transports CALCIUM and other divalent cations across membranes and uncouples oxidative phosphorylation while inhibiting ATPase of rat liver mitochondria. The substance is used mostly as a biochemical tool to study the role of divalent cations in various biological systems.
anti-bacterial agents	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
calcium ionophore	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of CELL MEMBRANES to CALCIUM ions.
antibacterial drugs	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
a-form dna	An isoform of DNA that occurs in an environment rich in SODIUM and POTASSIUM ions. It is a right-handed helix with 11 base pairs per turn, a pitch of 0.256 nm per base pair and a helical diameter of 2.3 nm.
dna structure	The structure of a DNA molecule, consisting of its primary nucleotide sequence as well as its secondary and tertiary arrangement in space.
temephos	An organothiophosphate insecticide.
insecticide	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
temefos	An organothiophosphate insecticide.
insecticides	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
invertebrate pest poison	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
product containing insecticide	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
abbreviation	A shortened form of a word or phrase.
rdomain	The short name for a related domain.
abbreviations	A shortened form of a word or phrase.
terminology entity	Terminology entities represent the elements that form and define an ontology.
preferred abbreviation	A shortened form of a word or phrase.
carelex etmf terminology	Carelex eMTF is a controlled vocabulary developed to support content interoperability between electronic Trial Master File systems for clinical trials.
cdisc-glossary	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Glossary group.
abbreviations as topic	Works about shortened forms of written words or phrases used for brevity.
abdomen	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
diaphragmatic	The musculofibrous partition that separates the THORACIC CAVITY from the ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Contraction of the diaphragm increases the volume of the thoracic cavity aiding INHALATION.
gallbladder	A storage reservoir for BILE secretion. Gallbladder allows the delivery of bile acids at a high concentration and in a controlled manner, via the CYSTIC DUCT to the DUODENUM, for degradation of dietary lipid.
abdominal structure	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
pancreatic	A nodular organ in the ABDOMEN that contains a mixture of ENDOCRINE GLANDS and EXOCRINE GLANDS. The small endocrine portion consists of the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS secreting a number of hormones into the blood stream. The large exocrine portion (EXOCRINE PANCREAS) is a compound acinar gland that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system that empties into the DUODENUM.
abdomen and	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
spleen	An encapsulated lymphatic organ through which venous blood filters.
abdominopelvic region	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
kidney.right	Kidney located right of sagittal midplane of body.
abdomen+	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
left kidney structure	Kidney located left of sagittal midplane of body.
abdominopelvis	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
abdominal cavities	Området i buken som sträcker sig från mellangärdet till den övre öppningen i bäckenet. Bukhålan består av bukhinna och bukens inre organ samt området utanför bukhinnan inklusive retroperitonealrum.
abdominal wall	The outer margins of the ABDOMEN, extending from the osteocartilaginous thoracic cage to the PELVIS. Though its major part is muscular, the abdominal wall consists of at least seven layers: the SKIN, subcutaneous fat, deep FASCIA; ABDOMINAL MUSCLES, transversalis fascia, extraperitoneal fat, and the parietal PERITONEUM.
trunk	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the thoracic and lumbar vertebral column, sacrum and coccyx, it is partially surrounded by skin of trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk.
truncus	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the thoracic and lumbar vertebral column, sacrum and coccyx, it is partially surrounded by skin of trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk.
both adrenal glands	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
diaphragm	The musculofibrous partition that separates the THORACIC CAVITY from the ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Contraction of the diaphragm increases the volume of the thoracic cavity aiding INHALATION.
hepatic body system	A large lobed glandular organ in the abdomen of vertebrates that is responsible for detoxification, metabolism, synthesis and storage of various substances.
kidney - right	Kidney located right of sagittal midplane of body.
left kidney	Kidney located left of sagittal midplane of body.
abdominal cavity	Området i buken som sträcker sig från mellangärdet till den övre öppningen i bäckenet. Bukhålan består av bukhinna och bukens inre organ samt området utanför bukhinnan inklusive retroperitonealrum.
peritoneal sac	Serous sac that surrounds the abdominal viscera and lines the abdominal cavity. Examples: There is only one peritoneal sac.
abdominopelvic regions	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
lumbar	subdivision of back each instance of which has as its constitutional part some complete set of vertebral arches (L1-L5) and anatomical entities located posterior to them; together with back of thorax and back of pelvis constitutes the back. Examples: There is only one back of abdomen.
abdominal	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
lower trunk	Subdivision of trunk which has as its parts the abdomen and the back of abdomen. Examples: There is only one abdominal segment of trunk.
upper right quadrant abdomen	The region of the abdomen that extends from the median plane to the right of the patient, and from the umbilical plane to the right ribcage.
left lower quadrant	The region of the abdomen that extends from the median plane to the left of the patient, and below the umbilicus.
pelvic cavity	Subdivision of trunk, which is demarcated from the abdomen by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture, and from the perineum by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm; together with the thorax, abdomen, and perineum, it constitutes the trunk. Examples: There is only one pelvis.
anterolateral part of trunk	Subdivision of trunk which is demarcated from the back of trunk by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage, the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines, the external surface of the posterior abdominal wall and from the limbs by the inguinal folds; together with the back of trunk, it constitutes the trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk proper.
front of trunk	Subdivision of trunk which is demarcated from the back of trunk by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage, the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines, the external surface of the posterior abdominal wall and from the limbs by the inguinal folds; together with the back of trunk, it constitutes the trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk proper.
anterior part of abdomen	Subdivision of abdomen which is demarcated from the pelvis by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture. Examples: There is only one abdomen proper.
front of abdomen	Subdivision of abdomen which is demarcated from the pelvis by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture. Examples: There is only one abdomen proper.
structure of subregion of abdomen	Any portion of the body that lies within the boundary, either internally or externally, of the abdomen: superior margin, the thorax; inferior margin, the pelvis; lateral margins, the ribs.
mass; abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal tumor	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
flank pain	Smärta som utgår från området mellan nedre revbenskanten och höftbenskammen.
traumatic diaphragmatic hernias	The type of DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA caused by TRAUMA or injury, usually to the ABDOMEN.
femoral hernia	A groin hernia occurring inferior to the inguinal ligament and medial to the FEMORAL VEIN and FEMORAL ARTERY. The femoral hernia sac has a small neck but may enlarge considerably when it enters the subcutaneous tissue of the thigh. It is caused by defects in the ABDOMINAL WALL.
inguinal hernia nos	An abdominal hernia with an external bulge in the GROIN region. It can be classified by the location of herniation. Indirect inguinal hernias occur through the internal inguinal ring. Direct inguinal hernias occur through defects in the ABDOMINAL WALL (transversalis fascia) in Hesselbach's triangle. The former type is commonly seen in children and young adults; the latter in adults.
oblique inguinal hernia	A protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents into the inguinal canal through the deep and superficial inguinal rings.
obturator hernia	A pelvic hernia through the obturator foramen, a large aperture in the hip bone normally covered by a membrane. Obturator hernia can lead to intestinal incarceration and INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION.
scrotal hernia	The protrusion of abdominal cavity contents into the scrotal sac.
umbilical hernia	Protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents through the abdominal wall at the umbilicus.
x-ray abdomen	Radiographic visualization of the body between the thorax and the pelvis, i.e., within the peritoneal cavity.
gallbladder; colic	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gallbladder region.
umbilical hernia with gangrene	A protrusion of necrotic tissue through the abdominal wall under the skin near the umbilicus.
internal hernia	En utbuktning av bukvävnader genom bukväggen. Två komponenter ingår: en öppning i bukväggen och en bråcksäck bestående av bukhinnan och bukinnehåll.
fryns syndrome	A rare syndrome inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It is characterized by the presence of diaphragmatic defects, distinctive facial features (hypertelorism, low-set ears, flat nasal bridge, and micrognathia), distal digital hypoplasia, lung hypoplasia, and brain, gastrointestinal, and cardiovascular malformations.
abdominal bruit	An indication that auscultation of the major arteries of the abdomen demonstrates the presence of turbulent vascular sounds.
beevor sign	Weakness of the inferior portion of the rectus abdominal muscle, which is ascertained clinically as follows. When a patient sits up or raises the head from a recumbent position, the umbilicus is displaced toward the head. This is the result of paralysis of the inferior portion of the rectus abdominal muscle, so that the upper fibres predominate pulling upwards the umbilicus. [PMID:2146943]
hypoperistalsis	Reduced or inadequate peristalsis, with resultant slow passage of contents through the digestive tract. [HPO:probinson]
colic nos	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
abdominal abscesses	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
hernia of bochdalek	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
fluoroscopy of diaphragm	A fluoroscopic medical test done to evaluate the function of the diaphragm. The subject is asked to sniff quickly and the movement of the diaphragm is monitored with a fluoroscope. It is a quick and easy real-time assessment of diaphragmatic motor function.
abdominal reflex absent	Lack of contraction of abdominal muscles in the quadrant of the abdomen that is stimulated by scraping the skin tangential to or toward the umbilicus. [PMID:12531937, PMID:24785227]
examination of abdomen	An assessment of the abdomen including the organs within the abdominal cavity.
abdomen injury	General or unspecified injuries involving organs in the abdominal cavity.
abdominal infection	Infection within the PERITONEAL CAVITY. A frequent cause is an ANASTOMOTIC LEAK following surgery.
hernia of abdominal wall	The presence of a hernia in the abdominal wall. [HPO:probinson]
cesarean wound disruption	Asymptomatic separation of the uterine wall, usually at the site of a prior uterine scar, that does not include the overlying serosa.
pseudo demons meigs syndrome	A rare neoplastic disease characterised by the presence of a benign or malignant, pelvic or abdominal tumour (other than ovarian fibroma or fibroma-like and localised outside of the ovaries, fallopian tubes, and broad ligaments) associated with hydrothorax and ascites that resolve after tumour resection. Patients usually present with dyspnoea, pelvic mass with or without a tender, distended abdomen and/or weight loss.
abdominal mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdomen tumors	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
diaphragmatic hernia	Protrusion of abdominal structures into the THORAX as a result of congenital or traumatic defects in the respiratory DIAPHRAGM.
epigastric hernia	Protrusion of abdominal cavity contents or pre-peritoneal fat through the abdominal wall between the umbilicus and the xiphoid process.
inguinal hernia	An abdominal hernia with an external bulge in the GROIN region. It can be classified by the location of herniation. Indirect inguinal hernias occur through the internal inguinal ring. Direct inguinal hernias occur through defects in the ABDOMINAL WALL (transversalis fascia) in Hesselbach's triangle. The former type is commonly seen in children and young adults; the latter in adults.
abdomens	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
indirect inguinal hernia	A protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents into the inguinal canal through the deep and superficial inguinal rings.
ventral hernia	A hernia caused by weakness of the anterior ABDOMINAL WALL due to midline defects, previous incisions, or increased intra-abdominal pressure. Ventral hernias include UMBILICAL HERNIA, incisional, epigastric, and spigelian hernias.
laparoscopy	A procedure in which a laparoscope (LAPAROSCOPES) is inserted through a small incision near the navel to examine the abdominal and pelvic organs in the PERITONEAL CAVITY. If appropriate, biopsy or surgery can be performed during laparoscopy.
x-ray;abdomen	Radiographic visualization of the body between the thorax and the pelvis, i.e., within the peritoneal cavity.
biliary colic	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gallbladder region.
gangrenous umbilical hernia	A protrusion of necrotic tissue through the abdominal wall under the skin near the umbilicus.
abnormal bowel sounds	An anomaly of the amount or nature of abdominal sounds. Abdominal sounds (bowel sounds) are made by the movement of the intestines as they promote passage of abdominal contents by peristalsis. []
abdominal cavity hernia nos	En utbuktning av bukvävnader genom bukväggen. Två komponenter ingår: en öppning i bukväggen och en bråcksäck bestående av bukhinnan och bukinnehåll.
hernia of abdominal cavity	En utbuktning av bukvävnader genom bukväggen. Två komponenter ingår: en öppning i bukväggen och en bråcksäck bestående av bukhinnan och bukinnehåll.
hyperactive bowel sounds	Abnormally increased gurgling/rumbling sounds made by the movement of fluid and gas in the intestines. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22767621]
congenital diaphragmatic hernia	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
abdominal exercise	Facilitating exercise of a client's abdominal muscles for therapeutic effect(s) (for example, to prevent lower back injury). Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
absent abdominal reflex	Lack of contraction of abdominal muscles in the quadrant of the abdomen that is stimulated by scraping the skin tangential to or toward the umbilicus. [PMID:12531937, PMID:24785227]
abdominal injury	General or unspecified injuries involving organs in the abdominal cavity.
bloat	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
bloating	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
acute abdominal pain syndrome	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
bisacodyl	A diphenylmethane stimulant laxative used for the treatment of CONSTIPATION and for bowel evacuation. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p871)
acute abdomen	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
casanthranol	Koncentrovaná směs anthranolových glykosidů získaná z cascara sagrada (kůra krušiny olšové, též řešetláku Purshova).
abdominal syndrome acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
[d]abdominal pain nos	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
acute abdominal pain	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
symptoms	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
pain observations	An unpleasant sensation induced by noxious stimuli which are detected by NERVE ENDINGS of NOCICEPTIVE NEURONS.
abdominal cramps	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
pain abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal cramping	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
stomach gripes	An involuntary muscular contraction in the stomach. Often, this cramp is spasmodic and can be uncomfortable.
cramp abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
unspecified abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal cramp	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
crampy abdominal pain	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
bellyache	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
[d]abdominal cramps	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
cramps abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdominal; pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
[d]abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
griping abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
pain; abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
griping abdomen	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdmnal pain unspcf site	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
pain in stomach	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal pains	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdo pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
gut pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
stomach pain	A painful sensation in the stomach.
impaired low nutritional intake	Intake of nutrients insufficient to meet metabolic needs.
abdominal pain nos	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdomen pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
muscle cramps	A sustained and usually painful contraction of muscle fibers. This may occur as an isolated phenomenon or as a manifestation of an underlying disease process (e.g., UREMIA; HYPOTHYROIDISM; MOTOR NEURON DISEASE; etc.). (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1398)
skeletal muscle tissue	A subtype of striated muscle, attached by TENDONS to the SKELETON. Skeletal muscles are innervated and their movement can be consciously controlled. They are also called voluntary muscles.
structure of stomach	An area of the stomach, not otherwise specified.
stomach cramps	An involuntary muscular contraction in the stomach. Often, this cramp is spasmodic and can be uncomfortable.
fda cdrh terminology	Terminology used in individual case reports for voluntary and mandatory reporting of adverse reactions or adverse events during both pre and post approval periods of medical device development and usage.
health effect - clinical code	Terms/codes for describing the clinical signs and symptoms or conditions of the affected person appearing as a result of the medical device adverse event/incident used by the CDRH.
abdominal distention	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
enlargement abdomen	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
distended abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdomen enlargement	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
abdominal swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
bloated feeling	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
bloated abdomen	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdominal distension	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
swollen abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
enlarged abdomen	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
bloating feelings	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
gassiness	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdomen feels bloated	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
bloating symptoms	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
distention	The condition of being stretched beyond normal dimensions.
donohue syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome of extreme insulin resistance due to mutations in the binding domain of INSULIN RECEPTOR. Clinical features include severe intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction, characteristic dysmorphic FACIES; HIRSUTISM; VIRILIZATION; multiple endocrine abnormalities, and early death.
puerto rican infant hypotonia syndrome	This syndrome is characterized principally by non-progressive central hypotonia, chronic constipation, severe psychomotor retardation, abnormal dermatoglyphics, dysharmonic skeletal maturation and disproportionate muscle fibers. Seizures or an abnormal electroencephalograph were also reported. To date, the syndrome has been reported in three unrelated Puerto Rican boys.
feeling bloated	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
meteorism	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdominal bloating	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdomen distended	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
bloating symptom	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
[d]abdominal swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
swelling; abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal bloated	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
distension nos	The condition of being stretched beyond normal dimensions.
symptom	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
swelling abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
symptoms; abdomen	A subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen. []
chronic functional constipation	Infrequent or difficult evacuation of feces, which has been present for at least 3 of the prior 12 months.
digestive system finding	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the gastrointestinal system. (NCI)
swelling abd	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
digestive system observation	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the gastrointestinal system. (NCI)
abdomen distention	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
gastrointestinal system	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
swelling	Enlargement; expansion in size; sign of inflammation
abdominal swellings	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
procedure	In medicine, a treatment or action taken to prevent or treat disease, or improve health in other ways.
tympanites	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
swollen;abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
bloating feeling	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
bloating abdominal	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
distension	The condition of being stretched beyond normal dimensions.
pediatric adverse events terminology	Terminology developed by the National Children's Study and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of adverse events in the pediatric population.
nichd terminology	Core library of terms associated with pediatrics, representing information related to child health and development from pre-birth through 21 years of age; contributed by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.
[d]abdominal mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
swelling of abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
gastrointestinal system finding	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the gastrointestinal system. (NCI)
swellings	Enlargement; expansion in size; sign of inflammation
abdomen enlarged	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
bloating nos	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdominals bloated	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
enlarging abdomen	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
abdomen; swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
intra-abdominal; swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
lump; intra-abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
swelling; intra-abdominal	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
mass abdomen	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
[d]symptoms	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
[d]abdominal lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abnormality of abdomen morphology	A structural abnormality of the abdomen ('belly'), that is, the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax. [HPO:probinson]
mass in abdomen	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal neoplasms	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
polyp of cervix uteri	Abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane of the endocervix. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21270291]
intestines polyps	Discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the INTESTINE. A polyp is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk, pedunculus, or by a broad base.
abdomen mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
appendicular mucocele	Accumulation of mucus within the appendix.
ovarian cystic mass	General term for CYSTS and cystic diseases of the OVARY.
pancreatic cyst	A true cyst of the PANCREAS, distinguished from the much more common PANCREATIC PSEUDOCYST by possessing a lining of mucous EPITHELIUM. Pancreatic cysts are categorized as congenital, retention, neoplastic, parasitic, enterogenous, or dermoid. Congenital cysts occur more frequently as solitary cysts but may be multiple. Retention cysts are gross enlargements of PANCREATIC DUCTS secondary to ductal obstruction. (From Bockus Gastroenterology, 4th ed, p4145)
pseudocyst of pancreas	Cyst-like space not lined by EPITHELIUM and contained within the PANCREAS. Pancreatic pseudocysts account for most of the cystic collections in the pancreas and are often associated with chronic PANCREATITIS.
abdominal masses	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
pseudocysts pancreatic	Cyst-like space not lined by EPITHELIUM and contained within the PANCREAS. Pancreatic pseudocysts account for most of the cystic collections in the pancreas and are often associated with chronic PANCREATITIS.
placental polyp	A polyp in the uterine cavity that is formed by placenta remnants.
hemangioma intra-abdom	A hemangioma arising from organs within the abdominal cavity.
mass abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
polyp; corpus uteri	A benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity (endometrial polyp) or the endocervix (endocervical polyp). It may occasionally recur following complete resection.
polyp of vagina	A benign polypoid lesion arising from the vaginal wall.
stomach; polyp	A polyp that arises from the stomach. This category includes neoplastic polyps (intestinal-type adenomatous polyps, gastric-type adenomas, and fundic gland polyps), and non-neoplastic polyps (hyperplastic polyps and hamartomatous polyps).
polyps of stomach	A polyp that arises from the stomach. This category includes neoplastic polyps (intestinal-type adenomatous polyps, gastric-type adenomas, and fundic gland polyps), and non-neoplastic polyps (hyperplastic polyps and hamartomatous polyps).
liver mass	A space-occupying pathologic process that affects the liver parenchyma.
hepatic mass	A space-occupying pathologic process that affects the liver parenchyma.
mass ovary	An abnormal growth in the ovary.
cyst of the vagina	A cystic lesion located in the vagina.
abdominal lumps	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
gallbladder polyps	A polypoid tumor that arises from the gallbladder and projects into the lumen. This category includes adenomas and hyperplastic polyps.
polyp of gallbladder	A polypoid tumor that arises from the gallbladder and projects into the lumen. This category includes adenomas and hyperplastic polyps.
kidney mass	An abnormal growth in the kidney.
lump abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
liver cyst	A cystic lesion located in the liver.
fallopian tube; cyst	A fluid filled sac located in the Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson]
hamartoma of stomach	A non-neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma overgrowth and cystic formations.
adrenal mass	An abnormal growth in the adrenal gland.
polyp; ureter	A growth protruding from the mucous membrane of the ureter. Ureteral polyps can be attached to the ureter by a broad base or a thin stalk. [NCIT:C4530]
pelvic lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the pelvic region. []
cervical warts	A benign neoplasm that arises from the cervix. It is associated with human papillomavirus infection and is characterized by the presence of papillary structures with fibrovascular cores. The papillary structures are covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytosis is usually present.
condyloma acuminatum of cervix	A benign neoplasm that arises from the cervix. It is associated with human papillomavirus infection and is characterized by the presence of papillary structures with fibrovascular cores. The papillary structures are covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytosis is usually present.
intestinal mass	An abnormal growth in the small or large intestine.
a mass	In medicine, a lump in the body. It may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. A mass may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer).
belly bloating	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
pelvic mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the pelvic region. []
cervical polyps	Abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane of the endocervix. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21270291]
abdominal mass nos	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
intestinal polyp	Discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the INTESTINE. A polyp is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk, pedunculus, or by a broad base.
intra-abdominal; mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
appendix mucocele	Accumulation of mucus within the appendix.
abdominal; mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
ovarian cyst	General term for CYSTS and cystic diseases of the OVARY.
pancreatic cysts	A true cyst of the PANCREAS, distinguished from the much more common PANCREATIC PSEUDOCYST by possessing a lining of mucous EPITHELIUM. Pancreatic cysts are categorized as congenital, retention, neoplastic, parasitic, enterogenous, or dermoid. Congenital cysts occur more frequently as solitary cysts but may be multiple. Retention cysts are gross enlargements of PANCREATIC DUCTS secondary to ductal obstruction. (From Bockus Gastroenterology, 4th ed, p4145)
pancreatic pseudocyst	Cyst-like space not lined by EPITHELIUM and contained within the PANCREAS. Pancreatic pseudocysts account for most of the cystic collections in the pancreas and are often associated with chronic PANCREATITIS.
pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis	A condition characterized by the presence of multiple gas-filled cysts in the intestinal wall, the submucosa and/or subserosa of the INTESTINE. The majority of the cysts are found in the JEJUNUM and the ILEUM.
polyp of corpus uteri	A benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity (endometrial polyp) or the endocervix (endocervical polyp). It may occasionally recur following complete resection.
lump abdomen	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
corpus uteri; polyp	A benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity (endometrial polyp) or the endocervix (endocervical polyp). It may occasionally recur following complete resection.
abdomen lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
ovarian mass	An abnormal growth in the ovary.
vagina; cyst	A cystic lesion located in the vagina.
gallbladder polyp	A polypoid tumor that arises from the gallbladder and projects into the lumen. This category includes adenomas and hyperplastic polyps.
renal mass	An abnormal growth in the kidney.
anal polyp	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic polypoid lesion that arises from the anus. Representative examples include the fibroepithelial polyp and squamous papilloma.
hepatic cyst	A cystic lesion located in the liver.
abdomen lumps	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
simple renal cyst	A homogenous cyst located in the kidney.
cyst; urethra	A cystic lesion located in the urethra.
splenic cyst	A closed sac located in the spleen. [HPO:probinson, PMID:24794024]
colon cancer stage ii	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria or into non-peritonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues. T4: Tumor directly invades other organs or structures, and/or perforates visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
mass;abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
biliary cyst	A cystic dilatation that occurs in any part of the biliary tree.
mass of prostate	A lump detected in the prostate. In this context, mass is a general term for a lump or growth that may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. []
prostatic mass	A lump detected in the prostate. In this context, mass is a general term for a lump or growth that may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. []
condyloma of the cervix	A benign neoplasm that arises from the cervix. It is associated with human papillomavirus infection and is characterized by the presence of papillary structures with fibrovascular cores. The papillary structures are covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytosis is usually present.
condylomata acuminata of the vagina	A human papillomavirus-related neoplasm that arises from the vagina. It is characterized by papillomatosis, acanthotic changes, and hyperkeratosis. Koilocytosis is usually present.
gastric mass	An abnormal growth located in the stomach.
mass of bowel	An abnormal growth in the small or large intestine.
nephroblastoma	pediatric nephroblastoma originating from embryonic kidney stem cells; usually affects children before the fifth year, but may occur in the fetus or rarely in later life; caused by defects in one or more tumor suppressor genes.
ovarian epithelial cancer stage iii	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage i renal wilms' tumor	The tumor was completely removed by surgery and all of the following are true: (1) cancer was found only in the kidney and did not spread to blood vessels of the kidney; (2) the outer layer of the kidney did not break open; (3) the tumor did not break open; (4) a biopsy of the tumor was not done; and (5) no cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the tumor was removed.
stage ii kidney nephroblastoma	Cancer spread out of the kidney to nearby soft tissue or to blood vessels of the kidney and was completely removed by surgery. No cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the cancer was removed.
metastatic wilm's tumor	Cancer has spread through the blood to organs such as the lungs, liver, bone, or brain, or to lymph nodes outside of the abdomen and pelvis (the part of the body between the hips).
stage v wilms tumor	Cancer cells are found in both kidneys when the disease is first diagnosed. Each kidney is staged separately as I, II, III, or IV.
recurrent kidney adenosarcoma	The reemergence of Wilms tumor of the kidney after a period of remission.
epithelial predominant renal adenosarcoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the epithelial component. The epithelial cells may form papillary and tubular patterns and pseudorosettes.
blastema predominant renal adenosarcoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the blastema component.
stromal predominant wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the mesenchymal component.
mucinous cystadenocarcinoma ovary	An invasive cystic adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin. The malignant cells invade the ovarian stroma and the cystic spaces contain mucoid material. In a minority of cases both ovaries are involved by the tumor. The prognosis for stage I tumors is excellent. Patients with metastases usually have a poor prognosis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4026" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4026" NCI Thesaurus)
relapsed ovarian germ cell tumor	The reemergence of ovarian germ cell tumor after a period of remission.
ovarian teratoma	The presence of a teratoma in the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
ovarian mixed germ cell tumor	An ovarian malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components. At least one of the germ cell components is primitive. The most common combination of germ cell elements is dysgerminoma and yolk sac tumor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8114" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8114" NCI Thesaurus)
desmoplastic small-cell tumors	A rare, aggressive soft tissue sarcoma that primarily affects adolescents and young adults. It is most commonly found in the abdomen.
intra-abdominal; lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
bile duct; cystadenoma	An epithelial, usually multiloculated neoplasm arising from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It occurs predominantly in females. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, and jaundice. Morphologically, the cystic spaces are lined by columnar epithelium and contain mucinous or serous fluid.
pancreatic cystadenoma	A non-metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas.
endometrioid cancer of the ovary	An endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary. It comprises 10% to 25% of all primary ovarian carcinomas. Grossly, endometrioid carcinoma may present as a cystic or solid mass. Microscopically, the tumor greatly resembles the appearance of the ordinary type of endometrial adenocarcinoma. As a group, endometrioid carcinoma has a prognosis twice as good as that of serous or mucinous carcinoma. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7979" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7979" NCI Thesaurus)
undifferentiated carcinoma of ovary	An aggressive carcinoma arising from the ovary. Most patients present with advanced disease. Microscopically, it is characterized by significant cytologic atypia, increased mitotic activity, and necrosis. The prognosis is usually poor.
ovarian neoplasm malignant granulosa cell	An aggressive granulosa cell tumor that arises from the ovary. [NCIT:C8403]
yolk sac tumour of ovary	A usually rapidly growing malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. It usually occurs in children and adolescents. Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain and a large abdominal or pelvic mass. The serum alpha-fetoprotein is almost always elevated preoperatively. Morphologically, there is marked heterogeneity due to numerous patterns of differentiation coexisting in the same tumor. The most common pattern is reticular. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8107" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8107" NCI Thesaurus)
adrenal gland neuroblastoma	A neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland.
pediatric ovarian germ cell tumor	A germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
recurrent hepatoblastoma	The reemergence of hepatoblastoma after a period of remission.
ovarian adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary. It is the most common type of ovarian carcinoma. It includes the serous adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, clear cell adenocarcinoma, and endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
monodermal teratoma	A teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of tissues derived exclusively from one embryonic germ cell layer.
adult kidney adenosarcoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in adults.
childhood ovarian choriocarcinoma	A non-gestational choriocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood immature teratoma of ovary	An immature teratoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood teratoma of ovary	A mature or immature teratoma that arises from the ovary during childhood.
pediatric ovarian endodermal sinus neoplasm	A yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
wilms tumor	A Wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in children.
clear cell myomelanocytic tumor	PEComas of the falciform ligament / ligamentum teres.
extrahepatic bile duct mcn	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts.
hereditary ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients that have a history of ovarian carcinoma.
cystadenoma of intrahepatic bile duct	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts.
mature ovarian teratoma	An ovarian teratoma which may be cystic, composed entirely of well differentiated, adult-type tissues, without evidence of fetal-type tissues. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8112" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8112" NCI Thesaurus)
mixed hepatoblastoma with teratoid features	A hepatoblastoma characterized by the presence of mixed epithelial and mesenchymal components and additional tissues such as striated muscle, bone, epithelial tissues, and melanin pigment.
nonanaplastic renal wilms' tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the absence of nuclear anaplasia.
abdomen masses	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
ovarian cystic teratoma	A teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of cystic structures. Representative example is the dermoid cyst.
ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that, in well differentiated tumors, resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or, in poorly differentiated tumors, show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia.
ovarian solid teratoma	A mature teratoma that arises from the ovary and presents as a large solid mass. It contains multiple cysts that vary in size. Small foci of hemorrhage are also present.
ovarian transitional cell cancer	A carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that resemble malignant urothelial cells. There is no morphologic evidence of a benign or borderline Brenner tumor component present.
pancreatic serous cystadenoma	A benign, non-metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas. It is composed of glycogen-rich epithelial cells which produce a watery fluid. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
stage ii hepatoblastoma	No metastases, tumor grossly resected with microscopic residual disease (i.e., positive margins); or tumor rupture, or tumor spill at the time of surgery. (from PDQ 2004)
postsurgical stage iv hepatoblastoma	Distant metastases, regardless of the extent of liver involvement. (from PDQ 2004)
postsurgical stage i hepatoblastoma	No metastases, tumor completely resected. (from PDQ 2004)
small cell undifferentiated hepatoblastoma	A hepatoblastoma composed exclusively of noncohesive sheets of small undifferentiated cells.
burkitt's lymphoma of small intestine	A Burkitt lymphoma that arises from the small intestine.
figo stage iiia ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian cancer with positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes and/or microscopic metastasis beyond the pelvis. (FIGO, 2014)
stage iiic ovarian epithelial cancer	Stage IIIC includes: (T3c, N0, M0); (Any T, N1, M0). T3c: Peritoneal metastasis beyond pelvis more than 2cm in greatest dimension and/or regional lymph node metastasis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian embryonal carcinoma	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian polyembryoma	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
cell granulosa ovary tumor	A granulosa-stromal cell tumor that arises from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of granulosa cells that comprise at least ten percent of the cellular population. The granulosa cells are often found in a background that contains theca and fibrous cells. There are two major subtypes recognized, adult and juvenile granulosa cell tumor. Clinically, patients may present with an abdominal mass. Symptoms depend on the patient's age. The most important indicator of prognosis is tumor stage. Age over forty years at the time of the initial diagnosis, large tumor size, bilaterality, cellular atypia, and increased mitotic activity are factors indicating a potentially aggressive clinical course and relative poor prognosis.
benign struma ovarii	A mature monodermal teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of benign, thyroid-type tissues.
polyembryoma of ovary	A rare, malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of embryoid bodies which resemble early embryos. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C39990" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C39990" NCI Thesaurus)
malignant ovarian clear cell tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by a predominance of clear and hobnail malignant epithelial cells.
malignant ovarian endometrioid tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary characterized by the presence of malignant, endometrial-type cells. It includes endometrioid adenocarcinoma and carcinosarcoma.
malignant ovarian mucinous tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin and may resemble the epithelial cells of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract. It includes mucinous adenocarcinoma and mucinous adenocarcinofibroma.
malignant ovarian serous tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that, in well differentiated tumors, resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or, in poorly differentiated tumors, show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia. It includes serous adenocarcinoma and serous adenocarcinofibroma.
malignant ovarian transitional cell tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that resemble malignant urothelial cells. It includes transitional cell carcinoma and malignant Brenner tumor.
ovarian biphasic or triphasic teratoma	A germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and is composed of tissues that originate from two or three of the following germ layers, endoderm, ectoderm, or mesoderm.
ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma	A rare malignant, epithelial ovarian neoplasm, composed of clear, eosinophilic and hobnail cells displaying variable degrees of tubulocystic, papillary and solid histological patterns, macroscopically appearing as a typically unilateral mass in the ovary which ranges from solid to cystic. Patients are often diagnosed in early stages and usually present with pelvic pain and pressure, an abdominal mass and/or gastrointestinal problems, such as early satiety or bloating. Association with Lynch syndrome has been reported.
ovarian dermoid cyst with adenocarcinoma	A secondary adenocarcinoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with angiosarcoma	A secondary angiosarcoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with leiomyosarcoma	A secondary leiomyosarcoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with melanoma	A secondary melanoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
pancreatic mucinous-cystic neoplasm	A non-invasive or invasive cystic epithelial neoplasm that affects almost exclusively females. It is characterized by the presence of columnar mucin-producing epithelial cells and ovarian-type stroma formation.
pancreatic serous cystic neoplasm	A benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that is usually cystic and arises from the exocrine pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that produce fluid similar to serum. Representative examples include serous cystadenoma and serous cystadenocarcinoma.
uterine carcinosarcoma	A rare malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal tumor of the uterine body composed of high-grade carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements. It may present with vaginal bleeding, abnormal vaginal discharge, abdominal pain and/or pelvic mass, with a polypoid tumor sometimes protruding through the cervical canal. Association with Tamoxifen therapy, long-term unopposed estrogen use and previous pelvic radiotherapy has been reported.
ossifying renal tumor	A benign neoplasm of the kidney occurring in infants. It develops as an intracalyceal mass and is characterized by the presence of osteoid formation, osteoblast-like cells, and spindle cells.
clear cell adenocarcinofibroma of ovary	A carcinoma arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with clear cytoplasm in a fibrotic stroma.
ovarian small cell carcinoma	A rare highly aggressive poorly differentiated ovarian neoplasm, often associated with paraneoplastic hypercalcaemia. It is usually diagnosed in childhood or young adulthood at an advanced stage and presents with abdominal or pelvic mass or, rarely, symptoms related to hypercalcaemia. Occasional familial cases have been reported.
mucinous adenocarcinofibroma of ovary	A malignant neoplasm of the ovary with an invasive epithelial component and a fibrotic stroma. The epithelial component is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with intracytoplasmic mucin. Cystic spaces are also present which contain mucoid material.
pancreatic serous adenoma	A benign, non-metastasizing, usually cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas. It is composed of glycogen-rich epithelial cells which produce a watery fluid. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
pancreatic macrocystic serous cystadenoma	A benign, non-metastasizing epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of a few large cysts and is composed of glycogen-rich epithelial cells which produce a watery fluid.
pancreatic solid serous adenoma	A well-circumscribed serous adenoma that is solid and lacks cystic changes.
ovarian adenocarcinoma serous high grade	A rapidly growing serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of high grade cytologic features and frequent mitotic figures.
figo stage iii ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer involving 1 or both ovaries with cytologically or histologically confirmed spread to the peritoneum outside the pelvis and/or metastasis to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage iiib ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with macroscopic, extrapelvic, peritoneal metastasis equal or less than 2 cm +/- positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Includes extension to capsule of liver/spleen. (FIGO, 2014)
stage iva ovarian epithelial cancer	Ovarian cancer with pleural effusion with positive cytology. (FIGO, 2014)
stage iiic ovarian cancer	Stage IIIC includes: T3c, N0/N1, M0. T3c: Ovarian cancer with macroscopic peritoneal metastasis beyond the pelvis more than 2 cm in greatest dimension with or without metastasis to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes (includes extension of tumor to capsule of liver and spleen without parenchymal involvement of either organ). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only (histologically confirmed). M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
refractory hepatoblastoma	Hepatoblastoma that does not respond to treatment.
platinum-resistant ovarian cancer	Ovarian carcinoma that is resistant to platinum therapy.
brca-associated ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma caused by deleterious germline mutation in a gene of the BRCA family.
mass; intra-abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
recurrent brca- associated ovarian carcinoma	The reemergence of BRCA-associated ovarian carcinoma after a period of remission.
stage i ovarian dysgerminoma	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
stage iii ovarian dysgerminoma	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian dysgerminoma	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian teratoma	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian carcinoma	Cancer that began in tissue covering the ovary is found in one or both ovaries and has spread beyond the abdomen to distant parts of the body. Ovarian cancer that is found in tissues of the liver is stage IV disease.
ovarian cancer stage iia	Stage IIA includes: T2a, N0, M0. T2a: Extension and/or implants on uterus and/or tube(s). No malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ovarian cancer stage iib	Stage IIB includes: T2b N0, M0. T2b: Extension and/or implants on other pelvic tissues. No malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
figo stage iiic ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with macroscopic, extrapelvic, peritoneal metastasis greater than 2 cm +/- positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Includes extension to capsule of liver/spleen. (FIGO, 2014)
recurrent ovarian adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian serous adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian mucinous adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian mucinous adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent malignant ovarian brenner tumor	The reemergence of malignant ovarian Brenner tumor after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian transitional cell carcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian transitional cell carcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent uterine corpus carcinosarcoma	The reemergence of uterine corpus carcinosarcoma after a period of remission.
advanced endometrial carcinosarcoma	Uterine corpus carcinosarcoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
unresectable ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
metastatic ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
advanced ovarian carcinoma	An ovarian carcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
locally advanced ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
unresectable ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
recurrent ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma after a period of remission.
metastatic ovarian carcinosarcoma	Ovarian carcinosarcoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
advanced ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
metastatic ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma	Ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
refractory ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
metastatic ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma	Ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
refractory ovarian adenocarcinoma	Ovarian adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
abdominal neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
tumour nos	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
tumor of abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplastic process	The pathological mechanisms and forms taken by tissue during degeneration into a neoplasm and its subsequent activity.
neoplastic processes	The pathological mechanisms and forms taken by tissue during degeneration into a neoplasm and its subsequent activity.
tumor abdominal	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
anal neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the ANAL CANAL.
abdominal tumors	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neopl biliary tract	Tumors or cancer in the BILIARY TRACT including the BILE DUCTS and the GALLBLADDER.
bladder neoplasm	new abnormal urinary bladder tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
neoplasm of bladder	new abnormal urinary bladder tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
neoplasm of cervix	new abnormal cervical tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
abdominal neopl	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
mole;malignant	A uterine tumor derived from persistent gestational TROPHOBLASTS, most likely after a molar pregnancy (HYDATIDIFORM MOLE). Invasive hyadatiform mole develops in about 15% of patients after evacuation of a complete mole and less frequently after other types of gestation. It may perforate the MYOMETRIUM and erode uterine vessels causing hemorrhage.
neoplasm of abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplasm of endometrium	Tumors or cancer of ENDOMETRIUM, the mucous lining of the UTERUS. These neoplasms can be benign or malignant. Their classification and grading are based on the various cell types and the percent of undifferentiated cells.
fallopian tube neoplasm	Benign or malignant neoplasms of the FALLOPIAN TUBES. They are uncommon. If they develop, they may be located in the wall or within the lumen as a growth attached to the wall by a stalk.
tumor of the intestines	Tumors or cancer of the INTESTINES.
intestinal neopl	Tumors or cancer of the INTESTINES.
pancreatic tumors	Tumors or cancer of the PANCREAS. Depending on the types of ISLET CELLS present in the tumors, various hormones can be secreted: GLUCAGON from PANCREATIC ALPHA CELLS; INSULIN from PANCREATIC BETA CELLS; and SOMATOSTATIN from the SOMATOSTATIN-SECRETING CELLS. Most are malignant except the insulin-producing tumors (INSULINOMA).
abdominal wall neoplasm nos	Tumors or cancer of the PERITONEUM.
abdominals tumors	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
retroperitoneal neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue in the RETROPERITONEAL SPACE.
abdominal tumours	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplasm of the ureter	Cancer or tumors of the URETER which may cause obstruction leading to hydroureter, HYDRONEPHROSIS, and PYELONEPHRITIS. HEMATURIA is a common symptom.
urethra neoplasm	Cancer or tumors of the URETHRA. Benign epithelial tumors of the urethra usually consist of squamous and transitional cells. Primary urethral carcinomas are rare and typically of squamous cells. Urethral carcinoma is the only urological malignancy that is more common in females than in males.
tumour of abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
uterine neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the UTERUS.
vaginal neoplasms	Tumors or cancer of the VAGINA.
benign cervix uteri neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the cervix. Representative examples include squamous papilloma, endocervical polyp, and rhabdomyoma.
benign uterine neoplasm nos	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the uterine corpus or the cervix. Representative examples include leiomyoma, adenomyoma, and endocervical polyp.
benign neoplasm of vagina	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vagina. Representative examples include squamous papilloma and melanocytic nevus.
abdomen neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
benign prostatic neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the prostate. Representative examples include benign phyllodes tumor, leiomyoma, and fibroma.
benign ureteral tumor	Abnormal growth of the cells of the ureter (upper urinary tract) without malignant characteristics.
neoplasm of seminal vesicle	A benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the seminal vesicle. Representative examples include cystadenoma and adenocarcinoma.
benign seminal vesicle neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the seminal vesicle.
neopl ovarian	Tumors or cancer of the OVARY. These neoplasms can be benign or malignant. They are classified according to the tissue of origin, such as the surface EPITHELIUM, the stromal endocrine cells, and the totipotent GERM CELLS.
endomet intraepithl neop	A premalignant neoplastic process that affects the endometrial epithelium and glands. It is characterized by architectural glandular alterations and cytological abnormalities in the epithelial cells. The lesion exceeds 1 mm in maximum linear dimension.
neoplasms	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
anatomical structure	tree section heading for anatomical, physiological, and related terms.
neoplasm biliary tract	Tumors or cancer in the BILIARY TRACT including the BILE DUCTS and the GALLBLADDER.
bladder neoplasms	new abnormal urinary bladder tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
cervix tumors	new abnormal cervical tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
hydatidiform mole; malignant	A uterine tumor derived from persistent gestational TROPHOBLASTS, most likely after a molar pregnancy (HYDATIDIFORM MOLE). Invasive hyadatiform mole develops in about 15% of patients after evacuation of a complete mole and less frequently after other types of gestation. It may perforate the MYOMETRIUM and erode uterine vessels causing hemorrhage.
tumor of fallopian tube	Benign or malignant neoplasms of the FALLOPIAN TUBES. They are uncommon. If they develop, they may be located in the wall or within the lumen as a growth attached to the wall by a stalk.
abdomen tumours	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
intestine neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the INTESTINES.
pancreatic neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the PANCREAS. Depending on the types of ISLET CELLS present in the tumors, various hormones can be secreted: GLUCAGON from PANCREATIC ALPHA CELLS; INSULIN from PANCREATIC BETA CELLS; and SOMATOSTATIN from the SOMATOSTATIN-SECRETING CELLS. Most are malignant except the insulin-producing tumors (INSULINOMA).
prostatic neoplasms	Tumors or cancer of the PROSTATE.
urethral neoplasms	Cancer or tumors of the URETHRA. Benign epithelial tumors of the urethra usually consist of squamous and transitional cells. Primary urethral carcinomas are rare and typically of squamous cells. Urethral carcinoma is the only urological malignancy that is more common in females than in males.
vagina neoplasms	Tumors or cancer of the VAGINA.
benign uterine cervix tumor	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the cervix. Representative examples include squamous papilloma, endocervical polyp, and rhabdomyoma.
benign tumors vaginal	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vagina. Representative examples include squamous papilloma and melanocytic nevus.
benign prostatic tumour	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the prostate. Representative examples include benign phyllodes tumor, leiomyoma, and fibroma.
benign neoplasm of ureter	Abnormal growth of the cells of the ureter (upper urinary tract) without malignant characteristics.
abdominal desmoid	A relatively large mass of unusually firm scarlike connective tissue resulting from active participation of fibroblasts, occurring most frequently in the abdominal muscles of women who have borne children. The fibroblasts infiltrate surrounding muscle and fascia. (Stedman, 25th ed)
intravenous leiomyomatosis of uterus	A rare benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of smooth muscle cells growing within veins.
benign tumor of seminal vesicle	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the seminal vesicle.
placenta neoplasms	An intrauterine mass containing decidual cells (DECIDUA) or with structures resembling the PLACENTA. Deciduomas usually are induced experimentally.
deciduomas	An intrauterine mass containing decidual cells (DECIDUA) or with structures resembling the PLACENTA. Deciduomas usually are induced experimentally.
benign placental tumor	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the placenta. Representative examples include hemangioma and polyp.
ovarian cancer	Tumors or cancer of the OVARY. These neoplasms can be benign or malignant. They are classified according to the tissue of origin, such as the surface EPITHELIUM, the stromal endocrine cells, and the totipotent GERM CELLS.
endometrial glandular dysplasia	A premalignant neoplastic process that affects the endometrial epithelium and glands. It is characterized by architectural glandular alterations and cytological abnormalities in the epithelial cells. The lesion exceeds 1 mm in maximum linear dimension.
tumor	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
tumor abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
magnesium citrate	The citrate salt of the element magnesium with cathartic activity. The cathartic action of magnesium cations appears to result, in part, from osmotically mediated water retention, which subsequently stimulates peristalsis. In addition, magnesium ions may also stimulate the activity of nitric oxide (NO) synthase and increase the biosynthesis of the phospholipid proinflammatory mediator platelet activating factor (PAF) in the gut. NO may stimulate intestinal secretion via prostglandin- and cyclic GMP-dependent mechanisms while PAF produces significant stimulation of colonic secretion and gastrointestinal motility. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29241" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29241" NCI Thesaurus)
docusate sodium	The sodium salt of docusate, a dioctyl salt and an emollient laxative with stool-softening activity. Docusate decreases surface tension and emulsification of fecal matter and allows water to penetrate and mix with stool. As a result, it softens the stool.
docusate calcium	The calcium salt of docusate, a dioctyl salt and an emollient laxative with stool-softening activity. Docusate decreases surface tension and emulsification of fecal matter and allows water to penetrate and mix with stool. As a result, it softens the stool.
alosetron hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of alosetron, a potent and selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. Alosetron blocks the actions of serotonin at 5-HT3 sites in the peripheral nervous system, particularly on enteric and nociceptive sensory neurons, thereby affecting the regulation of visceral pain, decreasing gastrointestinal contraction and motility, and decreasing gastrointestinal secretions. This agent is used to treat diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome in women.
elagolix	An orally bioavailable, second-generation, non-peptide based, small molecule compound and selective gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH; LHRH) receptor antagonist, with potential hormone production inhibitory activity. Upon oral administration, elagolix competes with GnRH for receptor binding and inhibits GnRH receptor signaling in the anterior pituitary gland. This inhibits the secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). In males, the inhibition of LH secretion prevents the release of testosterone. In women, inhibition of FSH and LH prevents the production of estrogen by the ovaries. Inhibition of GnRH signaling may treat or prevent symptoms of sex hormone-dependent disease states.
abdominal colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
peritoneal pain	Painful sensation in the peritoneum.
abdominal crampy pains	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
gastralgia	A painful sensation in the stomach.
[d]colic nos	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
pain abdo	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
pain in flank	Smärta som utgår från området mellan nedre revbenskanten och höftbenskammen.
abd. pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominalgia	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
gastric pain	A painful sensation in the stomach.
colic [d]	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
indigestion	Impaired digestion, especially after eating.
peritoneal disorder nos	Pathological processes involving the PERITONEUM.
disease of stomach	Pathological processes involving the STOMACH.
sickle cell anaemia	A disease characterized by chronic hemolytic anemia, episodic painful crises, and pathologic involvement of many organs. It is the clinical expression of homozygosity for hemoglobin S.
fabry disease	An X-linked inherited metabolic disease caused by a deficiency of lysosomal ALPHA-GALACTOSIDASE A. It is characterized by intralysosomal accumulation of globotriaosylceramide and other GLYCOSPHINGOLIPIDS in blood vessels throughout the body leading to multi-system complications including renal, cardiac, cerebrovascular, and skin disorders.
crohn's disease	A chronic transmural inflammation that may involve any part of the DIGESTIVE TRACT from MOUTH to ANUS, mostly found in the ILEUM, the CECUM, and the COLON. In Crohn disease, the inflammation, extending through the intestinal wall from the MUCOSA to the serosa, is characteristically asymmetric and segmental. Epithelioid GRANULOMAS may be seen in some patients.
hereditary fructose intolerance	An autosomal recessive fructose metabolism disorder due to deficient fructose-1-phosphate aldolase (EC 2.1.2.13) activity, resulting in accumulation of fructose-1-phosphate. The accumulated fructose-1-phosphate inhibits glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis, causing severe hypoglycemia following ingestion of fructose. Prolonged fructose ingestion in infants leads ultimately to hepatic failure and death. Patients develop a strong distaste for sweet food, and avoid a chronic course of the disease by remaining on a fructose- and sucrose-free diet.
cyclical vomiting syndrome	A condition characterized by recurrent, self-limiting episodes of vomiting associated with intense nausea, pallor, and lethargy. It is commonly a migraine precursor.
variegate porphyria	Vrozená porfyrie s autozomálně dominantní dědičností, způsobená sníženou aktivitou protoporfyrinogenoxidázy. Manifestuje se podobně jako jiné akutní hepatální porfyrie (zejm. jako akutní intermitentní porfyrie), často po působení noxy (barbituráty, steroidy, alkohol aj.). Vždy je přítomna fotosenzitivita. Ve stolici je vysoký obsah koproporfyrinu a protoporfyrinu, fluorescence plasmy vykazuje specifické emise. Léčba je stejná jako u akutní intermitentní porfyrie, navíc je ještě nutná péče o kůži. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
acute; intermittent porphyria	An autosomal dominant porphyria that is due to a deficiency of HYDROXYMETHYLBILANE SYNTHASE in the LIVER, the third enzyme in the 8-enzyme biosynthetic pathway of HEME. Clinical features are recurrent and life-threatening neurologic disturbances, ABDOMINAL PAIN, and elevated level of AMINOLEVULINIC ACID and PORPHOBILINOGEN in the urine.
gitelman's syndrome	An inherited renal disorder characterized by defective NaCl reabsorption in the convoluted DISTAL KIDNEY TUBULE leading to HYPOKALEMIA. In contrast with BARTTER SYNDROME, Gitelman syndrome includes hypomagnesemia and normocalcemic hypocalciuria, and is caused by mutations in the thiazide-sensitive SODIUM-POTASSIUM-CHLORIDE SYMPORTERS.
cronkhite-canada syndrome	Nespecifický polypózní syndrom, který je charakterizován přítomností difuzní gastrointestinální polypózy, průjmem a exsudativní enteropatií. Poprvé byl tento syndrom hlášen v roce 1955 Cronkhitem a Canadovou.
fundic gland polyposis	Multiple polyps in the acid-secreting mucosa of the gastric body and fundus. Fundic gland polyps (FGP) are usually 1 to 5 mm in size, though larger polyps have been found. FGPs are typically sessile, shiny, translucent, pale to pinkish in color (resembling the surrounding mucosa), and often exhibit tiny surface blood vessels. These polyps have characteristically been observed to chunk off or detach entirely at the base when removed with cold forceps, in contrast to other types of gastric polyps. [PMID:20567540]
delta storage pool disease	An autosomal recessive sub-type of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome caused by mutation(s) in the HPS1 gene, encoding Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 1 protein. This sub-type is associated with pulmonary fibrosis.
mahvash disease	An extremely rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the GCGR gene. It is characterized by the presence of islet glucagon cell hyperplasia and glucagon cell tumors.
[d]abdominal colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
pain;epigastric	Pain that is localized to the region of the upper abdomen immediately below the ribs. [https://www.healthgrades.com/symptoms/epigastric-pain, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432]
migraine abdominal	Paroxysmal episodes of intense, acute periumbilical pain that lasts for one or more hours with intervening periods of usual health lasting weeks to months, with no evidence of an inflammatory, anatomic, metabolic, or neoplastic process that explains the symptoms. The pain interferes with normal activities and is associated with at least two of the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, photophobia, and/or pallor.
inguinal region painful	An unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort (such as pricking, throbbing, or aching) localized to the groin region. []
three-month colic	Consistent pattern of crying in a healthy infant between 3 weeks and 3 months of age. Often defined as lasting 3 hours a day more than 3 days a week for at least 3 weeks in a row.
dyspepsia	Impaired digestion, especially after eating.
observation of abdominal guarding	A voluntary contraction of the abdominal wall musculature to avoid pain. []
episodic abdominal pain	An intermittent form of abdominal pain. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal symptoms	A subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen. []
gastrointestinal pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
anxiety	Feelings or emotions of dread, apprehension, and impending disaster but not disabling as with ANXIETY DISORDERS.
pain;abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
diarrhea	An increased liquidity or decreased consistency of FECES, such as running stool. Fecal consistency is related to the ratio of water-holding capacity of insoluble solids to total water, rather than the amount of water present. Diarrhea is not hyperdefecation or increased fecal weight.
body nutrition deficit	Intake of nutrients insufficient to meet metabolic needs.
latex allergy reaction	A hypersensitive reaction to natural latex rubber products.
stomach ache	A painful sensation in the stomach.
pain; rectum	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the rectal region.
urethral pain	A painful sensation in the urethra.
ache stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
colic; abdomen	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
vaginal pain	A painful sensation in the vagina.
ap - abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
pain anal	Painful sensation in the anal region.
inguinodynia	An unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort (such as pricking, throbbing, or aching) localized to the groin region. []
painful spasm of anus	Recurrent episodes of pain localized to the anus or lower rectum which lasts seconds to minutes. There is no pain between episodes.
hepatic pain	A painful sensation in the liver.
uterine pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the uterus.
nervous system physiological concepts	Egenskaper och processer typiska för nervsystemet som helhet eller med avseende på det perifera eller centrala nervsystemet.
gastrointestinal pain nos	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
pain gastric	A painful sensation in the stomach.
[d]colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
gi pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
colics	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
dysuria	Painful URINATION. It is often associated with infections of the lower URINARY TRACT.
lumbago nos	Acute or chronic pain in the lumbar or sacral regions, which may be associated with musculo-ligamentous SPRAINS AND STRAINS; INTERVERTEBRAL DISK DISPLACEMENT; and other conditions.
pain in rectum	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the rectal region.
ovulation pain	A disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in one side of the abdomen between menstrual cycles, around the time of the discharge of the ovum from the ovarian follicle.
pain; stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
lower abdominal pain	A sensation of discomfort emanating from the inferior quadrants of the abdomen, which may be peritoneal or visceral in origin, or referred from an extra-abdominal location.
bladder pain	Painful sensation in the bladder region.
pain anus	Painful sensation in the anal region.
groin pains	An unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort (such as pricking, throbbing, or aching) localized to the groin region. []
prostatodynia	Pain in the prostate gland.
abdominal migraine	Paroxysmal episodes of intense, acute periumbilical pain that lasts for one or more hours with intervening periods of usual health lasting weeks to months, with no evidence of an inflammatory, anatomic, metabolic, or neoplastic process that explains the symptoms. The pain interferes with normal activities and is associated with at least two of the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, photophobia, and/or pallor.
proctalgia; fugax	Recurrent episodes of pain localized to the anus or lower rectum which lasts seconds to minutes. There is no pain between episodes.
liver pain	A painful sensation in the liver.
pudendal neuropathy	Pain associated with a damaged PUDENDAL NERVE. Clinical features may include positional pain with sitting in the perineal and genital areas, sexual dysfunction and FECAL INCONTINENCE and URINARY INCONTINENCE.
systema nervosum	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
neurological function	Egenskaper och processer typiska för nervsystemet som helhet eller med avseende på det perifera eller centrala nervsystemet.
pain;stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
pain stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
colic;abdominal	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
gastrodynia	A painful sensation in the stomach.
pain;peritoneal	Painful sensation in the peritoneum.
stomachache	A painful sensation in the stomach.
spasmodic abdominal pain	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
pain symptoms	An unpleasant sensation induced by noxious stimuli which are detected by NERVE ENDINGS of NOCICEPTIVE NEURONS.
nephroma	pediatric nephroblastoma originating from embryonic kidney stem cells; usually affects children before the fifth year, but may occur in the fetus or rarely in later life; caused by defects in one or more tumor suppressor genes.
klatskin's tumor	Nádor v horní oblasti vývodných žlučových cest (karcinom ductus hepaticus) s projevy obstrukčního ikteru; nádor je malý, metastazuje pomalu. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2015 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
cystadenocarcinoma of pancreas	A cystic adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas. It includes the acinar cell and serous cystadenocarcinoma subtypes.
stage ii colon cancer	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria or into non-peritonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues. T4: Tumor directly invades other organs or structures, and/or perforates visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
stage i wilms tumor	The tumor was completely removed by surgery and all of the following are true: (1) cancer was found only in the kidney and did not spread to blood vessels of the kidney; (2) the outer layer of the kidney did not break open; (3) the tumor did not break open; (4) a biopsy of the tumor was not done; and (5) no cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the tumor was removed.
stage ii wilms' tumor	Cancer spread out of the kidney to nearby soft tissue or to blood vessels of the kidney and was completely removed by surgery. No cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the cancer was removed.
stage iv wilms tumor	Cancer has spread through the blood to organs such as the lungs, liver, bone, or brain, or to lymph nodes outside of the abdomen and pelvis (the part of the body between the hips).
stage v wilm's tumor	Cancer cells are found in both kidneys when the disease is first diagnosed. Each kidney is staged separately as I, II, III, or IV.
mixed cell type kidney adenosarcoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of blastema, epithelial, and mesenchymal components (triphasic pattern) or a combination of two of them (biphasic pattern).
intestinal gastric adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma of the stomach arising on a background of intestinal metaplasia. Microscopically, it is characterized by a glandular pattern and it closely resembles a colonic adenocarcinoma. Grossly, it tends to be nodular, polypoid or ulcerated.
colon mucinous adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin. Malignant glandular epithelial cells are present in the mucin collections. Mucin constitutes more than 50% of the lesion. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7966" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7966" NCI Thesaurus)
undifferentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon	An invasive malignant epithelial tumor that arises from the colon. There is no morphologic, immunophenotypic, or molecular biological evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation.
rectal colloidal adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the rectum characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin. Malignant glandular epithelial cells are present in the mucin collections. Mucin constitutes more than 50% of the lesion. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7973" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7973" NCI Thesaurus)
anaplastic carcinoma of gallbladder	A carcinoma without evidence of differentiation arising from the gallbladder. The most common variant is the spindle and giant cell type which resembles a sarcoma.
rectal signet ring cell adenocarcinoma	An infiltrating adenocarcinoma arising from the rectum. It is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells with prominent intracytoplasmic mucin. These cells constitute more than 50% of the malignant cellular population.
pancreas acinar cell adenocarcinoma	A very rare malignant epithelial tumor of the pancreas characterized, macroscopically by a usually large well-circumscribed fully or partially encapsulated solid mass often with hemorrhage, necrosis and cystic changes in any portion of the pancreas. Histological characteristics are neoplastic cells with variable degrees of differentiation and morphology ranging from acinar structures similar to normal pancreatic acini to large sheets of poorly differentiated neoplastic cells. Presenting symptoms are typically non-specific and include abdominal pain, weight loss, vomiting, nausea, and/or less commonly jaundice. Immunohistochemical evidence of acinar-specific products is observed. Association with Lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, and pancreatic panniculitis has been reported.
ovarian mixed germ cell neoplasm	An ovarian malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components. At least one of the germ cell components is primitive. The most common combination of germ cell elements is dysgerminoma and yolk sac tumor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8114" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8114" NCI Thesaurus)
adult primary cholangiocarcinoma	A cholangiocarcinoma occurring in adults.
adenocarcinoma of pancreas	The presence of an adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
cystadenoma of bile duct	An epithelial, usually multiloculated neoplasm arising from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It occurs predominantly in females. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, and jaundice. Morphologically, the cystic spaces are lined by columnar epithelium and contain mucinous or serous fluid.
serous cystadenoma of ovary	A cystic tumor of the ovary, containing thin, clear, yellow serous fluid and varying amounts of solid tissue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23766763]
ovarian dysgerminoma	A malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. Morphologically, it is identical to seminoma and consists of a monotonous population of germ cells with abundant pale cytoplasm and uniform nuclei. The stroma invariably contains chronic inflammatory cells, mostly T-lymphocytes. It responds to chemotherapy or radiotherapy and the prognosis relates to the tumor stage. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8106" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8106" NCI Thesaurus)
early gastric cancer	An invasive adenocarcinoma confined to the mucosa or mucosa and submucosa of the gastric wall. The regional lymph nodes may or may not be involved. It usually occurs in the lesser curvature. The 5-year survival rate following resection is between 80 percent and 95 percent, and remains high even when lymph node metastases are present.
colorectal cancer stage ii	Stage II colorectal cancer is divided into stage IIA, stage IIB, and stage IIC. In stage IIA, cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall to the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon and/or rectal wall. In stage IIB, cancer has spread through the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall but has not spread to nearby organs. In stage IIC, cancer has spread through the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall to nearby organs.
stage iii colorectal cancer	Stage III colorectal cancer is divided into stage IIIA, stage IIIB, and stage IIIC. In stage IIIA, (1) cancer may have spread through the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon and/or rectal wall to the submucosa (layer of tissue under the mucosa) and may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall. Cancer has spread to at least one but not more than 3 nearby lymph nodes, or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes; or (2) cancer has spread through the mucosa of the colon and/or rectal wall to the submucosa. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes.In stage IIIB, (1) cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall to the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon and/or rectal wall or has spread through the serosa but not to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to at least one but not more than 3 nearby lymph nodes, or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes; or (2) cancer has spread to the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall or to the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes; or (3) cancer has spread through the mucosa of the colon and/or rectal wall to the submucosa and may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall. Cancer has spread to 7 or more nearby lymph nodes. In stage IIIC, (1) cancer has spread through the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall but has not spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes; or (2) cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall to the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall or has spread through the serosa but has not spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to 7 or more nearby lymph nodes; or (3) cancer has spread through the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall and has spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to one or more nearby lymph nodes, or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes.
unresectable small intestine carcinoma	Carcinoma of the small intestine not amendable to resection.
resectable carcinoma of small intestine	Carcinoma of the small intestine amendable to resection.
advanced peritoneal malignant mesothelioma	A malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum and has spread in the abdominal cavity. It may result in bowel obstruction.
recurrent peritoneal malignant mesothelioma	The reemergence of malignant peritoneal mesothelioma after a period of remission.
recurrent pancreatic adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of pancreatic adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
duodenal carcinoma recurrent	The reemergence of duodenal carcinoma after a period of remission.
resectable duodenal carcinoma	Carcinoma of the duodenum amendable to surgical removal.
extrahepatic bile duct adenosquamous carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous malignant epithelial components.
colloid extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of extracellular mucin that constitutes more than fifty-percent of the tumor.
ovarian serous cystadenofibroma	A benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma.
malignant ovarian germ cell tumor	A malignant germ cell tumor in children arising from the ovary. It includes the dysgerminoma, yolk sac tumor, choriocarcinoma, embryonal carcinoma and immature teratoma.
small intestine cancer stage i	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invades lamina propria or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
small intestine carcinoma stage ii	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosa or into the nonperitonealized perimuscular tissue (mesentery or retroperitoneum) with extension 2 cm or less. T4: Tumor perforates the visceral peritoneum or directly invades other organs or structures (including other loops of small intestine, mesentery, or retroperitoneum more than 2 cm, and abdominal wall by way of serosa; for duodenum only, invasion of pancreas or bile duct). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iii small intestinal cancer	Stage III includes: IIIA (Any T, N1, M0); IIIB (Any T, N2, M0); N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iv small intestinal cancer	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
parietal cell adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma of the stomach arising from the parietal cells. It is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with eosinophilic, finely granular cytoplasm.
metanephric adenoma	A benign, well-circumscribed renal cortical neoplasm affecting females more often than males. Polycythemia has been reported in twelve-percent of patients.
pancreatic acinar cell cystadenocarcinoma	A cystic adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of relatively uniform neoplastic cells which produce pancreatic enzymes and are arranged in acinar patterns. Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain, weight loss, nausea, and diarrhea. It usually has an aggressive clinical course.
adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction	An adenocarcinoma that arises from and straddles the junction of the stomach and esophagus. The category of adenocarcinomas of the gastroesophageal junction also includes the majority of adenocarcinomas previously called gastric cardia adenocarcinomas. Squamous cell carcinomas that affect or cross the junction of the stomach and esophagus are classified as carcinomas of the distal esophagus. Adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction occurs more often in Caucasian middle aged and elderly males. Clinical signs and symptoms include dysphagia, abdominal pain, and weight loss. The prognosis depends on the completeness of the surgical resection, the number of lymph nodes involved by cancer, and the presence or absence of postoperative complications. The presence of TP53 mutations indicates worse prognosis.
adult kidney wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in adults.
adenocarcinoma of ampulla of vater	An invasive carcinoma with glandular differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Signs and symptoms include jaundice, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
ampulla of vater adenosquamous carcinoma	A carcinoma with glandular and squamous differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Signs and symptoms include jaundice, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
ampulla of vater mucinous adenocarcinoma	A carcinoma with glandular differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of mucoid stroma formation.
ampulla of vater undifferentiated carcinoma	An aggressive carcinoma arising from the ampulla of Vater. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells without evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation. Signs and symptoms include jaundice, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
anaplastic renal wilm's tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of nuclear anaplasia. Anaplasia is defined by the presence of all of the following: multipolar polyploid mitotic figures, marked nuclear enlargement, and hyperchromasia. When anaplasia is diffuse, it is associated with an unfavorable clinical outcome.
childhood dysgerminoma	A dysgerminoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
pediatric embryonal carcinoma of ovary	An embryonal carcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood ovarian immature teratoma	An immature teratoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
pediatric teratoma of ovary	A mature or immature teratoma that arises from the ovary during childhood.
childhood ovarian endodermal sinus neoplasm	A yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
transition zone carcinoma of rectum	A carcinoma that arises from the transitional zone at the junction of the rectum and anus.
colloid carcinoma of the pancreas	An infiltrating pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, characterized by the presence of malignant cells floating in pools of mucin. It has a more favorable prognosis than the conventional infiltrating ductal adenocarcinoma. It often arises in association with intraductal pancreatic mucinous neoplasms and in some cases it may result in the development of pseudomyxoma peritonei.
colon adenosquamous carcinoma	An unusual colon carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components. The two carcinomatous components may be admixed within the tumor, or the two may appear separately in different areas.
colonic small cell carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
squamous cell carcinoma of colon	A rare epithelial tumour of the colon arising from squamous cells of the colorectal epithelium without the presence of squamous-lined fistulous tracts or a proximal extension of an anal squamous cell carcinoma. It usually presents with nonspecific symptoms, such as anorexia, weight loss, abdominal pain, changes of bowel habits, haematochezia or melaena. Cases of severe symptomatic hypercalcaemia have been reported.
gallbladder adenosquamous cancer	A carcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous malignant epithelial components.
colloid carcinoma of gallbladder	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of extracellular mucin that constitutes more than fifty-percent of the tumor.
gastric adenosquamous carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with glandular and squamous differentiation.
adenocarcinoma of cardia of stomach	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric cardia. The majority of cases have been reclassified as gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinomas.
papillary adenocarcinoma of the stomach	A variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with exophytic growth and elongated finger-like processes lined by cylindrical or cuboidal cells supported by fibrovascular connective tissue cores.
tubular adenocarcinoma of stomach	A variant of gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by prominent dilated or slit-like tubules.
high grade colorectal adenocarcinoma	A colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with less than 50% glandular formation.
well differentiated colon adenocarcinoma	A colon adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with more than 95% glandular formation.
well differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma	A colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with more than 95% glandular formation.
mucinous adenocarcinoma of stomach	A variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with more than half of the tumor containing extracellular mucinous pools.
peritoneal cystic mesothelioma	A cystic mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum and usually affects young to middle aged females. Grossly, it presents as a large multiloculated tumor mass, usually in the pelvic peritoneum. Histologically it is characterized by the presence of multiple cysts that are lined by one or more layers of mesothelial cells that do not show atypia. Patients usually present with abdominal or pelvic mass and pain. The clinical course is indolent. The tumor may recur, but transformation to diffuse malignant mesothelioma is rare.
nonanaplastic renal wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the absence of nuclear anaplasia.
ovarian surface papilloma	A benign serous neoplasm characterized by the presence of papillary proliferations on the surface of the ovary.
ductal adenocarcinoma of pancreas	A carcinoma occurring almost exclusively in adults that probably arises from the pancreatic duct epithelium. Most pancreatic carcinomas are ductal adenocarcinomas of which about two-thirds involve the head, with the remainder in the body and tail of the pancreas. The patients are usually over 50 years of age. Pain, jaundice, and loss of weight are the most common manifestations. Ductal adenocarcinomas usually grow rapidly and are discovered after they have already spread beyond the pancreas. Grossly, ductal adenocarcinomas are firm and poorly defined masses. Microscopically, most ductal adenocarcinomas are characterized by well-developed glandular structures embedded in a desmoplastic stroma. Ductal adenocarcinomas are fatal in the vast majority of cases (WHO 2000). Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9120" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9120" NCI Thesaurus)
pancreatic foamy gland adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of adenocarcinoma cells with foamy cytoplasm.
serous cystadenocarcinoma of pancreas	A very rare malignant epithelial neoplasm of the pancreas composed of cystic structures lined by glycogen-rich clear cells, associated with local invasiveness often involving the spleen, duodenum and/or stomach and metastatic spread to the liver, peritoneum and/or lymph nodes. Presenting symptoms are variable and usually non-specific and include abdominal and/or flank pain, palpable abdominal mass, upper gastrointestinal bleeding, jaundice or abnormal serum liver enzymes, vomiting, anorexia and/or weight loss.
signet ring cell stomach adenocarcinoma	A poorly cohesive gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by malignant cells containing intracytoplasmic mucin.
small intestinal small cell carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
stage i ovarian polyembryoma	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
rectal anaplastic carcinoma	An invasive malignant epithelial tumor that arises from the rectum. There is no morphologic, immunophenotypic, or molecular biological evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation.
sccoht	An undifferentiated small cell carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is associated with hypercalcemia. Electron microscopic studies show neurosecretory granules are either absent or, when present, are in small numbers.
pancreatic serous neoplasm	A benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that is usually cystic and arises from the exocrine pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that produce fluid similar to serum. Representative examples include serous cystadenoma and serous cystadenocarcinoma.
signet ring cell intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	An intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma characterized by the presence of signet ring adenocarcinoma cells.
benign pheochromocytoma of adrenal gland	A sporadic or familial pheochromocytoma that is confined to the adrenal gland and does not have any metastatic potential. The majority of cases are sporadic, and usually unilateral. Familial cases are usually bilateral.
clear cell intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	A morphologic variant of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma composed of malignant glandular epithelium, an abundant fibrous stroma, and the presence of clear cells. Clinical symptoms include abdominal pain, weight loss and malaise.
colon signet ring cell adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells which contain prominent intracytoplasmic mucin (signet ring cells). The signet ring cells constitute more than 50% of the malignant cells.
colorectal adenosquamous carcinoma	An unusual colorectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components. The two carcinomatous components may be admixed within the tumor, or the two may appear separately in different areas.
colorectal mucinous adenocarcinoma	An invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of extracellular mucin pools that contain malignant glandular epithelial structures. The extracellular mucin pools occupy more than 50% of the malignant lesion.
colorectal signet ring cell carcinoma	An invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells with prominent intracytoplasmic mucin resulting in the displacement of the nuclei. The malignant glandular cells with intracytoplasmic mucin constitute more than 50% of the malignant cellular infiltrate.
colorectal small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon or rectum. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
clear cell adenocarcinoma of gallbladder	A rare morphologic variant of gallbladder adenocarcinoma composed of malignant glandular epithelium with a predominance of glycogen rich clear cells. The cells display hyperchromic nuclei and well-defined cytoplasmic borders.
metastatic adrenal gland chromaffin neoplasm	A pheochromocytoma that has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
peritoneal wdpm	A localized or multifocal mesothelioma arising from the peritoneum. It predominantly occurs in women. It is characterized by the formation of papillae, covered by a single layer of blunt mesothelial cells. Mitotic figures are not present. There is no evidence of severe cytologic atypia. It has a relatively favorable clinical outcome, compared to diffuse malignant mesothelioma.
rectal adenosquamous cancer	An unusual rectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components. The two carcinomatous components may be admixed within the tumor, or the two may appear separately in different areas.
rectosigmoid signet ring cell carcinoma	An infiltrating adenocarcinoma arising from the rectosigmoid area. It is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells with prominent intracytoplasmic mucin. These cells constitute more than 50% of the malignant cellular population.
regional adrenal gland chromaffin neoplasm	A pheochromocytoma that has not spread to other regions.
small intestinal mucinous adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant glandular cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin. Often, the infiltrating glandular structures are associated with mucoid stromal formation.
small intestinal squamous cell cancer	A carcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant squamous cells.
small intestinal undifferentiated carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant epithelial cells which do not display evidence of glandular, squamous, or transitional cell differentiation.
sporadic diffuse gastric adenocarcinoma	A sporadic adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of poorly cohesive malignant cells and absence of glandular formations.
small intestinal adenosquamous cancer	A carcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant glandular cells and malignant squamous cells.
sporadic gastric adenocarcinoma	A primary adenocarcinoma of the stomach in a patient with no family history of gastric cancer or inherited high risk mutations.
rectal small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the rectum. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
stage iiib colon cancer	Stage IIIB includes: (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
hereditary pancreatic carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the pancreas in a patient with a family history of pancreatic cancer. In the minority of cases, patients have recognized genetic syndromes (e.g., FAMMM syndrome, BRCA2 syndrome, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome) however, in the majority of cases the genetic cause has not been identified.
stage iiib small intestinal cancer	Stage IIIB includes: Any T, N2, M0. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iic colorectal cancer	Stage IIC includes: T4b, N0, M0. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage ii intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors, with or without vascular invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iii intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor perforating the visceral peritoneum or involving the local extra hepatic structures by direct invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage ivb intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage i hilar cholangiocarcinoma	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor confined to the bile duct, with extension up to the muscle layer or fibrous tissue. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iiia hilar cholangiocarcinoma	Stage IIIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades unilateral branches of the portal vein or hepatic artery. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
pancreatic hepatoid adenocarcinoma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas. It is characterized by marked hepatocellular differentiation.
pancreatic medullary carcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by poor differentiation and a prominent syncytial growth pattern. The prognosis is more favorable compared to conventional pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
pancreatic itpn	An epithelial neoplasm that arises from the exocrine pancreas characterized by the formation of tubular structures, high grade dysplasia, and ductal differentiation. Grossly, it is characterized by the presence of intraductal nodular masses. Morphologically, there are nodules of tubular glands and occasional papillary structures growing in dilated ducts. There is no significant mucin production. Signs and symptoms include epigastric pain, weight loss, vomiting, steatorrhea, and diabetes mellitus.
poorly cohesive gastric carcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of isolated malignant cells or malignant cells that form small aggregates. This category includes signet ring cell adenocarcinomas, adenocarcinomas that are composed of malignant cells resembling lymphocytes and histiocytes, and adenocarcinomas that are composed of malignant cells with deeply eosinophilic cytoplasm.
gastric hepatoid adenocarcinoma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of large polygonal malignant cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm resembling hepatocytes.
gastric carcinoma with lymphoid stroma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of prominent lymphocytic stromal infiltration and poorly formed tubular structures.
gastric intramucosal adenocarcinoma	A neoplasm that arises from the gastric glandular epithelium and invades the lamina propria but not the submucosa. There is marked glandular crowding, branching and budding, intraluminal necrosis, and prominent mitotic activity. Desmoplastic changes may be present or absent.
stage ii rectal cancer	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4a, N0, M0); IIC (T4b, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
ampulla of vater hepatoid adenocarcinoma	A very rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the ampulla of Vater. It is usually of the intestinal type and is characterized by the presence of malignant polygonal cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm resembling hepatocytes.
gallbladder cribriform carcinoma	A rare variant of gallbladder adenocarcinoma. It is characterized by the presence of a malignant glandular epithelial infiltrate with a cribriform growth pattern.
bd-ipmn	An intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas that arises in one of the branches of the main pancreatic duct. It usually has an indolent behavior.
md-ipmn	An intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas that arises from the main pancreatic duct.
mixed type ipmn	An intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas that arises primarily from the main pancreatic duct and extends to the branch ducts.
stage iic colon cancer	Stage IIC includes: T4b, N0, M0. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage ivb colon cancer	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1b. M1b: Metastases in more than one organ/site or the peritoneum. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiib rectal cancer	Stage IIIB includes: (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iib rectal cancer	Stage IIB includes: T4a, N0, M0. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage i rectal carcinoma	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage i colon carcinoma	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iii rectosigmoid cancer	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0); IIIB (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0); IIIC (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iv rectosigmoid cancer	Stage IV includes: IVA: (Any T, Any N, M1a); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1b). M1a: Metastasis confined to one organ or site (e.g., liver, lung, ovary, nonregional node). M1b: Metastases in more than one organ/site or the peritoneum. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iii hilar cholangiocarcinoma	Stage III includes: IIIA: (T3, N0, M0); IIIB: (T4, N0, M0); IIIC: (Any T, N1, M0). T3: Tumor invading unilateral branches of the portal vein or hepatic artery. T4: Tumor invading the main portal vein or its branches bilaterally, or the common hepatic artery; or unilateral second-order biliary radicals with contralateral portal vein or hepatic artery involvement. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: One to three positive lymph nodes typically involving the hilar, cystic duct, common bile duct, hepatic artery, posterior pancreatoduodenal, and portal vein lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iv hilar cholangiocarcinoma	Stage IV includes: IVA: (Any T, N2, M0); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1). N2: Four or more positive lymph nodes involving the hilar, cystic duct, common bile duct, hepatic artery, posterior pancreatoduodenal, and portal vein lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
adrenal medullary pheochromocytoma	usually benign, well-encapsulated, lobular, vascular tumor of chromaffin tissue of the adrenal medulla or sympathetic paraganglia; the cardinal symptom, reflecting the increased secretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine, is hypertension, which may be persistent or intermittent.
gastric cardia squamous cell carcinoma	A squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the gastric cardia.
resectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma amenable to surgical resection.
recurrent ampulla of vater adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ampulla of Vater adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma	The reemergence of pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma after a period of remission.
locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
resectable pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma	Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
resectable extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma	Extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
unresectable adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	Adrenal gland pheochromocytoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
locally advanced adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	Adrenal gland pheochromocytoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
hereditary adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A familial adrenal gland pheochromocytoma caused by mutations in SDHB, SDHC, and SDHD genes.
refractory adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A pheochromocytoma that does not respond to treatment.
metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the exocrine pancreatic ducts and has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
metastatic colorectal mucinous adenocarcinoma	Colorectal mucinous adenocarcinoma that has spread from the original site of growth to other anatomic sites.
advanced pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
refractory pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
peritoneal biphasic mesothelioma	Malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum. It is characterized by the presence of epithelioid and sarcomatoid components, with each component representing at least 10% of the tumor.
locally advanced cholangiocarcinoma	Cholangiocarcinoma that has spread to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
localized pancreatic adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas and has not spread to other anatomic sites.
distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the common bile duct distal to the insertion of the cystic duct.
metastatic rectal squamous cell carcinoma	Rectal squamous cell carcinoma that has spread from the original site of growth to other anatomic sites.
advanced rectal squamous cell carcinoma	Rectal squamous cell carcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
unresectable distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	Distal bile duct adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
metastatic distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	Distal bile duct adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
pancreatic poorly cohesive adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas and is characterized by the presence of isolated malignant cells or malignant cells that form small aggregates.
pancreatic invasive micropapillary carcinoma	An invasive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of clusters of malignant cells located within artifactual clear stromal spaces.
unresectable peritoneal biphasic mesothelioma	Peritoneal biphasic mesothelioma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
resectable pancreatic adenosquamous carcinoma	Pancreatic adenosquamous carcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
refractory distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	Distal bile duct adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
metastatic distal bile duct carcinoma	A distal bile duct carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to other anatomic sites.
unresectable small intestinal adenocarcinoma	Small intestinal adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
refractory rectal squamous cell carcinoma	Rectal squamous cell carcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
muscle group of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
quadratus lumborum muscle	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
abdominal muscle	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
anterior abdominal wall muscle	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
abdominal muscles	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
skeletal muscle structure of trunk	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the trunk. Examples: external intercostal muscle, external oblique, levator ani.
structure of quadratus lumborum muscle	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
musculature of abdominal wall	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
anterior abdominal wall musculature	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
set of muscles of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
quadratus lumborum	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
skeletal muscle structure of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
abdominal wall muscle	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
psoas muscle	A powerful flexor of the thigh at the hip joint (psoas major) and a weak flexor of the trunk and lumbar spinal column (psoas minor). Psoas is derived from the Greek "psoa", the plural meaning "muscles of the loin". It is a common site of infection manifesting as abscess (PSOAS ABSCESS). The psoas muscles and their fibers are also used frequently in experiments in muscle physiology.
transverse abdominal	An anterolateral muscle of the abdomen which attaches to the thoracolumbar fascia, iliac crest, inguinal ligament, and the costal cartilages of the lower ribs, and which continues anteriorly as the transverse abdominis aponeurosis, which inserts into the linea alba, the pubic crest, and the pectineal line.
muscle of posterior abdominal wall	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
pelvic muscle	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the pelvis. Examples: levator ani,
muscle of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
muscle of anterior abdominal wall	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
abdominal wall proper	The outer margins of the ABDOMEN, extending from the osteocartilaginous thoracic cage to the PELVIS. Though its major part is muscular, the abdominal wall consists of at least seven layers: the SKIN, subcutaneous fat, deep FASCIA; ABDOMINAL MUSCLES, transversalis fascia, extraperitoneal fat, and the parietal PERITONEUM.
muscles of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
abdominal exercises	Facilitating exercise of a client's abdominal muscles for therapeutic effect(s) (for example, to prevent lower back injury). Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
recti abdominis	A long flat muscle that extends along the whole length of both sides of the abdomen. It flexes the vertebral column, particularly the lumbar portion; it also tenses the anterior abdominal wall and assists in compressing the abdominal contents. It is frequently the site of hematomas. In RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGICAL PROCEDURES it is often used for the creation of MYOCUTANEOUS FLAP. (From Gray's Anatomy, 30th American ed, p491)
abdominopelvic skeletal muscle structure	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
transversus abdominis	An anterolateral muscle of the abdomen which attaches to the thoracolumbar fascia, iliac crest, inguinal ligament, and the costal cartilages of the lower ribs, and which continues anteriorly as the transverse abdominis aponeurosis, which inserts into the linea alba, the pubic crest, and the pectineal line.
muscle of pelvis	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the pelvis. Examples: levator ani,
muscles of anterior abdominal wall	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
muscle of trunk	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the trunk. Examples: external intercostal muscle, external oblique, levator ani.
deep abdominal muscle	The group of muscles in the torso that are closest to the spine and furthest from the skin such as the psoas muscle and the quadratus lumborum.
musculi abdominis	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
superficial abdominal muscle	Any one of the anterior or anterolateral abdominal wall muscles, including the cremaster muscle, pyramidalis muscle, external oblique, internal oblique, transversus abdominis, and rectus abdominis muscles.
musculature of front of abdomen	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
muscles	Nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of skeletal muscle tissue aggregated into macroscopic fasciculi by connective tissue; together with other muscles, it constitutes the muscular system. Examples: biceps, diaphragm, masseter, right third external intercostal muscle, external oblique, levator ani, serratus anterior.
locomotor system	The MUSCLES, bones (BONE AND BONES), and CARTILAGE of the body.
cavity of compartment of abdomen	Området i buken som sträcker sig från mellangärdet till den övre öppningen i bäckenet. Bukhålan består av bukhinna och bukens inre organ samt området utanför bukhinnan inklusive retroperitonealrum.
cdisc	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium.
nervus abducens	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
nervi craniales	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
abducens nerve structure	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
peripheral nervous system	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
abducens nerve [vi]	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
set of cranial nerves	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
abducent nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
cranial nerves	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
sixth cranial nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
abducent nerve [vi]	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
visual system structure	The eye, ocular adnexa, afferent visual pathways, efferent visual pathways, and pupil innervation pathways
abducens nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
duanes syndrome	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
abductor digiti minimi	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
tolosa-hunt syndrome	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
nervus abducens [vi]	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
syndrome tolosa-hunt	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
tolosa hunt syndrome	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
sixth cranial nerves	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
injury to abducent nerve	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
traumatic abducens neuropathy	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
moebius congen oculofacial paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
abducens nerve tree	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
raymond-cestan syndrome	Abducent nerve paralysis with contralateral hemiparesis
abducen nerve palsy	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
inj sixth cranial nerve	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
injury of sixth cranial nerve	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
abducens nerve disorder	Sjukdomar i den 6. kranialnerven (abducens) eller dess kärna i hjärnbryggan (pons). Defekter hos nerven orsakar svaghet i ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis), vilken leder till horisontellt d ubbelseende och skelning (esotropi). Vanliga orsaker till nervskada är högt intrakraniellt blodtryck, skallskador, ischemi eller infratentoriella tumörer.
nerve vi	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
sixth nerve palsy	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
structure of cranial nerves	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
lateral rectus nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
cranium	The SKELETON of the HEAD including the FACIAL BONES and the bones enclosing the BRAIN.
abducens nerve disease	Sjukdomar i den 6. kranialnerven (abducens) eller dess kärna i hjärnbryggan (pons). Defekter hos nerven orsakar svaghet i ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis), vilken leder till horisontellt d ubbelseende och skelning (esotropi). Vanliga orsaker till nervskada är högt intrakraniellt blodtryck, skallskador, ischemi eller infratentoriella tumörer.
cdisc sdtm terminology	The terminology subset that includes terms pertaining to the CDISC Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM).
cdisc send terminology	The terminology subset that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Standard for Exchange of Non-clinical Data (SEND) group.
nervus abducen	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
lateral rectus palsy	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
betalipoprotein deficiency disease	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
cellosaurus disease terminology	CELLOSAURUS is a knowledge resource on cell lines. It attempts to describe all cell lines used in biomedical research. It includes immortalized cell lines; naturally immortal cell lines (such as stem cell lines); finite life cell lines when those are distributed and used widely. It encompasses vertebrate cell lines, with an emphasis on human, mouse and rat cell lines, and invertebrate (insects and ticks) cell lines. The Cellosaurus disease terminology is the set of terms used to annotate cell lines originating from a diseased patient or animal. For inherited diseases, the relevant terms are only applied to cell lines originating from individuals suffering or at risk for a disease and not for individuals that are carriers for such disease. For cancers, the relevant terms are only applied to cell lines established from a cancerous tissue. The Cellosaurus (https://web.expasy.org/cellosaurus/) is developed by Dr. Amos Bairoch of the CALIPHO group (https://www.sib.swiss/amos-bairoch-lydie-lane-group) at the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (https://www.sib.swiss).
bassen kornzweig dis	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
congenital	Denoting something that is present at birth.
anomalous formation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
genetic syndrome	general term for any disorder caused by a genetic mechanism, comprising chromosome aberrations or anomalies, mendelian or monogenic or single-gene disorders, and multifactorial disorders; note that all genetic disorders are not treed under this term; see RTs for others; in addition, many disorders not treed here or under RTs may have a genetic component.
congenital anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital or acquired anatomical abnormality	An anatomic abnormality that is either present at birth or appears later in life.
congenital abnormalities	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
birth defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
alprostadil	A potent vasodilator agent that increases peripheral blood flow.
congenital anomalies	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
agenesis of nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
gallbladder agenesis	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
fibulo ulnar hypoplasia renal anomalies	This syndrome has features of fibuloulnar dysostosis with renal anomalies. It has been described in two siblings born to nonconsanguinous parents. The syndrome is lethal at birth (respiratory failure). Clinical manifestations include ear and facial anomalies (including micrognathia), symmetrical shortness of long bones, fibular agenesis and hypoplastic ulna, oligosyndactyly, congenital heart defects, and cystic or hypoplastic kidney. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
congenital malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
crane heise syndrome	A very rare syndrome characterised by poorly mineralised calvarium, facial dysmorphism, vertebral abnormalities and absent clavicles. Nine cases have been reported in the literature so far. Dysmorphic features include micrognathia, cleft palate, hypertelorism and upturned nares. Clavicular aplasia is constant and agenesis of cervical vertebral bodies is frequent. Intra uterine growth retardation is constant. It is most likely that the condition is hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor, the syndrome is almost always lethal soon after birth.
congenital abnormality nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
birth defects	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
disease congenital	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
dysgenesis	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
postnatal growth disorder	physical growth disorders occurring after birth.
congenital anomaly nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
multiple congenital anomalies	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
deformity	An anatomic abnormality that is either present at birth or appears later in life.
congenital malformation syndrome	A syndrome characterized by the presence of congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or system.
abnorm congen	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital disorder	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
multiple; deformity	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
albinism	General term for a number of inherited defects of amino acid metabolism in which there is a deficiency or absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, or hair.
deformity; congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
chromosomopathy	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
abnormalities	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
anomaly of respiratory system nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital anomaly of neck	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
nervous system congenital malformations	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
foetal developmental abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital dysplasia	Abnormal tissue formation due to abnormal cellular organization, which may result in a morphologic defect.
vascular malformation	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
congenital deformity	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
av malformations	Abnormal formation of blood vessels that shunt arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the CAPILLARIES. They usually are crooked, dilated, and with thick vessel walls. A common type is the congenital arteriovenous fistula. The lack of blood flow and oxygen in the capillaries can lead to tissue damage in the affected areas.
louis-bar syndrome	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by choreoathetosis beginning in childhood, progressive CEREBELLAR ATAXIA; TELANGIECTASIS of CONJUNCTIVA and SKIN; DYSARTHRIA; B- and T-cell immunodeficiency, and RADIOSENSITIVITY to IONIZING RADIATION. Affected individuals are prone to recurrent sinobronchopulmonary infections, lymphoreticular neoplasms, and other malignancies. Serum ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS are usually elevated. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p688) The gene for this disorder (ATM) encodes a cell cycle checkpoint protein kinase and has been mapped to chromosome 11 (11q22-q23).
exstrophy of the bladder	A birth defect in which the URINARY BLADDER is malformed and exposed, inside out, and protruded through the ABDOMINAL WALL. It is caused by closure defects involving the top front surface of the bladder, as well as the lower abdominal wall; SKIN; MUSCLES; and the pubic bone.
nares; atresia	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal atresia	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal; fusion	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
congenital defects	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
immotile cilia syndrome	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
cleft lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
foetal malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
harelips	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
harelip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
dysmorphisms	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
palatoschisis	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
scong	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
cleft palate	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
marie-sainton syndrome	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
abnormal development	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
mulvihill smith syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple system abnormalities including DWARFISM; PHOTOSENSITIVITY DISORDERS; PREMATURE AGING; and HEARING LOSS. It is caused by mutations of a number of autosomal recessive genes encoding proteins that involve transcriptional-coupled DNA REPAIR processes. Cockayne syndrome is classified by the severity and age of onset. Type I (classical; CSA) is early childhood onset in the second year of life; type II (congenital; CSB) is early onset at birth with severe symptoms; type III (xeroderma pigmentosum; XP) is late childhood onset with mild symptoms.
cryptorchidism	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
dentin dysplasia	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
dentinogenesis imperfecta	An autosomal dominant disorder of tooth development characterized by opalescent dentin resulting in discoloration of the teeth. The dentin develops poorly with low mineral content while the pulp canal is obliterated.
gap between teeth	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
defects congen	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
fas - foetal alcohol syndrome	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fusion of teeth	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
developmental abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
tooth fusion	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
cavernous nevus	A vascular anomaly that is a collection of tortuous BLOOD VESSELS and connective tissue. This tumor-like mass with the large vascular space is filled with blood and usually appears as a strawberry-like lesion in the subcutaneous areas of the face, extremities, or other regions of the body including the central nervous system.
dysmorphism	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
cavernous hemangiomas	A vascular anomaly that is a collection of tortuous BLOOD VESSELS and connective tissue. This tumor-like mass with the large vascular space is filled with blood and usually appears as a strawberry-like lesion in the subcutaneous areas of the face, extremities, or other regions of the body including the central nervous system.
malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
hutchinson teeth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
kartagener's syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
klippel syndrome trenaunay weber	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
ktw syndrome	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
trichorhinophalangeal dysplasia type ii	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
langer-giedion syndrome	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
macrostomia	Greatly exaggerated width of the mouth, resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes, with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear. The defect may be unilateral or bilateral. (Dorland, 27th ed)
developmental defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
hypoplastic tongue	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
microglossia	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
fetal malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital oral malformation	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
natal tooth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
noonan-ehmke syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
dysplasia linguofacialis	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
pierre-robin syndrome	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
congenital defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital poikiloderma	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
deficiency; abdominal muscle syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
deformities	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
respiratory anomaly nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congen defects	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
respiratory system anomaly nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
cm - congenital malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
rubinstein-taybi syndrome	A chromosomal disorder characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION, broad thumbs, webbing of fingers and toes, beaked nose, short upper lip, pouting lower lip, agenesis of corpus callosum, large foramen magnum, keloid formation, pulmonary stenosis, vertebral anomalies, chest wall anomalies, sleep apnea, and megacolon. The disease has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance and is associated with deletions of the short arm of chromosome 16 (16p13.3).
schwartz jampel aberfeld syndrome	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
symmelia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
sjogren-larsson syndrome	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
parkes-weber syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
tetralogy of fallot	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
thanatophoric dwarfism	A severe form of neonatal dwarfism with very short limbs. All cases have died at birth or later in the neonatal period.
congenital anatomic abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
abnormality of dental morphology	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
impacted tooth	A tooth that is prevented from erupting by a physical barrier, usually other teeth. Impaction may also result from orientation of the tooth in an other than vertical position in the periodontal structures.
supernumerary teeth	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
syndrome werner	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
annular pancreas	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
anular pancreas	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
iniencephaly	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
congenital anomalies of fetus	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
imperforate hymen	A congenital disorder where the hymen (a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening) does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina. [PMID:24822139]
cleft lip and cleft palate	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
tongue absent	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
aglossia	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
absence; salivary gland	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
congenital abnormality of urinary system	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
angelman syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
dubowitz	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, and a small, round, triangular shaped face with a pointed, receding chin, a broad, wide-tipped nose, and wide-set eyes with drooping eyelids.
russell-silver	Genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by low birth weight, postnatal growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, bilateral body asymmetry, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers. Alterations in GENETIC IMPRINTING are involved. Hypomethylation of IGF2/H19 locus near an imprinting center region of chromosome 11p15 plays a role in a subset of Silver-Russell syndrome. Hypermethylation of the same chromosomal region, on the other hand, can cause BECKWITH-WIEDEMANN SYNDROME. Maternal UNIPARENTAL DISOMY for chromosome 7 is known to play a role in its etiology.
noack syndromes	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
shprintzen syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
diastrophic dysplasia	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the SLC26A2 gene, encoding sulfate transporter. It is characterized by cartilaginous and bony abnormalities, in particular very short arms and legs and the "hitchhiker" thumb, resulting from deformity of the first metacarpal.
charlie m. syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
naevus flammeus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
pycnodysostosis	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by delayed closing of CRANIAL SUTURES, short stature, ACRO-OSTEOLYSIS of distal phalanges, dental and MAXILLOFACIAL ABNORMALITIES and an increase in bone density that results in frequent BONE FRACTURES. It is associated with BONE RESORPTION defect due to mutations in the lysosomal cysteine protease CATHEPSIN K.
lenticonus	A conical projection of the anterior or posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:ncarter]
crossbites	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
congenital malformations	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
angioma serpiginosum	A hemangioma arising from the skin, presenting as a red dot.
essential telangiectasia	A hemangioma arising from the skin, presenting as a red dot.
anomaly congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
de sanctis-cacchione syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome. It is characterized by xeroderma pigmentosum, mental retardation, dwarfism, hypogonadism, and neurologic abnormalities.
robinow syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive or dominant inherited disorder. The autosomal recessive form is caused by mutations in the ROR2 gene. There is no causative mutation identified for the autosomal dominant form. It is manifested with short limbs, abnormal facial features, underdeveloped genitalia, and wedge-shaped vertebrae.
weaver syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene, and rarely mutations in the NSD1 gene. It is characterized by advanced bone age, foot deformities, permanently bent joints, macrocephaly, flattened back of the head, a broad forehead, hypertelorism, large, low-set ears, micrognathia, delayed development of motor skills, and mild intellectual disability.
meckel-gruber	A rare, lethal, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypoplasia, central nervous system malformations, and hepatic malformations.
fetal developmental abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
pallister-hall syndrome	A pleiotropic disorder of human development that comprises hypothalamic HAMARTOMA; central and postaxial POLYDACTYLY; bifid EPIGLOTTIS; ANAL ATRESIA; and renal and other abnormalities. This disorder is associated with FRAMESHIFT MUTATIONS in the GLI3 gene which encodes the GLI3 protein, a KRUPPEL-LIKE TRANSCRIPTION FACTORS family member.
royer's syndrome	Spojení diabetes mellitus se syndromem Prader-Williho.
whistling face syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
freeman-sheldon syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
pena-shokeir syndrome	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder. It is characterized by arthrogryposis, facial anomalies, polyhydramnios, camptodactyly, intrauterine growth retardation, and pulmonary hypoplasia. Pulmonary hypoplasia is present in the vast majority of cases and is often the fatal component of this syndrome.
melnick-fraser syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
goldenhar syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
otocephalic syndrome	A fatal, congenital, anatomic defect of the head characterised by a total or near total absence of the lower jaw, resulting in the union or close approach of the ears on the ventral side of the neck.
townes brocks syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
taybi syndrome	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
coffin lowry syndrome	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
stickler's syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
congen abnorm	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
pterygium colli syndrome	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
holt-oram syndrome	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
metatropic dysplasia	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TRPV4 gene, encoding transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4. It is characterized by a variable phenotype, which may include short limbs, kyphoscoliosis, and other skeletal abnormalities.
giant cell chondrodysplasia	A perinatally lethal skeletal dysplasia with manifestations of severe short-limbed dwarfism, joint dislocations, clubfeet along with distinctive facies and radiographic findings. Affected neonates are stillborn or die rapidly after birth. Craniofacial dysmorphism has characteristics of prominent forehead, hypertelorism, a depressed nasal bridge with a grooved tip, micrognathia and frequently a cleft palate. There is a continuum with overlapping clinical findings between atelosteogenesis I, atelosteogenesis III and boomerang dysplasia. This disease results from heterozygous mutations in exons 2-5 and 27-33 of the gene encoding filamin B (FLNB) located to 3p14.
kenny-caffey syndrome	A genetic condition characterized by long bone sclerosis and thickening, short stature, and head and eye anomalies. Many affected individuals have hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia.
ruvalcaba-myhre syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
coffin-siris syndrome	A rare genetic disorder with an undetermined pattern of inheritance affecting mostly females. Clinical signs at birth include recurrent respiratory infections, poor feeding, hypotonia, joint laxity and characteristic shortened fifth digits with hypoplastic or absent nails and craniofacial appearance: microcephaly, wide nose and lips, sparse scalp hair but thick eyebrows and eyelashes. The clinical course includes developmental delays in motor skills and speech with associated moderate mental retardation.
rieger syndrome	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
fetal dilantin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
fetal phenytoin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
fetal warfarin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
nasal anomaly	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
mulberry molars; molars	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
mesiodentes	A supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:18262485, PMID:31468724]
gemination of tooth	The development of two teeth from a single tooth bud, leading to a larger fused tooth. [PMID:18167487]
enamel pearls	Small nodules of enamel on the root of a tooth. [PMID:31468724]
increased size of tooth	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
conical teeth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
taurodontism	Increased volume of dental pulp of permanent molar characterized by a crown body-root ratio equal or larger than 1:1 or an elongated pulp chambers and apical displacement of the bifurcation or trifurcation of the roots. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
premature eruption of teeth	Premature tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD earlier than the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
posterior crossbite	<p>Posterior crossbite</p>
bites open	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
posterior open bite	<p>Posterior open bite</p>
excessive overbite	Increased superior-inferior overlap of the maxillary central incisors over the mandibular central incisors relative to the incisal ridges.
double; tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
developmental disturbance	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
lingual thyroid	Ett tillstånd som kännetecknas av förekomst av rudimentär sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Det beror på misslyckad embryonal utveckling och migrering av sköldkörtelvävnad till dess normala plats. Tungsköldkörteln kan vanligtvis inte upprätthålla en tillräcklig hormonproduktion, vilket leder till hypotyreos.
ambiguous genitalia	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
congenital anomaly or birth defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
anomalies congenital uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital uterine abnormality	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
unicornate uterus	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
synotia	A congenital malformation characterized by the union or approximation of the ears in front of the neck, often accompanied by the absence or defective development of the lower jaw. [HPO:sdoelken]
ethmocephaly	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of holoprosencephaly, a proboscis, the absence of a nose and microphthalmic, close-set eyes.
celosomia	Congenital protrusion of the abdominal or thoracic viscera, usually with a defect of the sternum and ribs as well as of the abdominal walls. [HPO:sdoelken]
developmental anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
reifenstein syndrome	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
cornelia de lange syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
de langes syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
indeterminate sex	Outer genital organs are not visually male or female.
indeterminate sex nos	Outer genital organs are not visually male or female.
caudal regression syndrome	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by partial or complete absence of the lower portion of the spine.
gingival cyst	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
congenital arteriovenous fistula - disorder	structural anomaly present at birth which allows direct passage of blood from an artery to a vein.
septo-optic dysplasia	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
scrotum; cleft	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
congenital thyroid gland hypoplasia	Incomplete development of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
endemic cretinism	Severely reduced physical and mental growth associated with pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, due to dietary iodine deficiency.
posterior lenticonus	A conical projection of the posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:gblack]
congenital; deformity	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
cloacal exstrophy	Cloacal exstrophy is a severe anterior abdominal wall defect in which the two hemibladders are visible and are separated by a midline intestinal plate, an omphalocele, and an imperforate anus. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic vagina	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
hydatid cyst	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
hydatid of morgagni	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
duplication; penis	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
phimosis	The male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis. [HPO:sdoelken]
cobb's syndrome	A rare congenital but non-hereditary disorder characterized by angiomas or arteriovenous malformations of the spinal cord. Clinical signs include sudden onset of radicular pain localizable to a dermatome with overlying cutaneous vascular lesions. Untreated, the clinical course follows a progression of sensory loss, weakness to paralysis and incontinence. However, clinical prognosis improves with endovascular embolization and/or surgical excision of the spinal lesion.
cobb syndrome	A rare congenital but non-hereditary disorder characterized by angiomas or arteriovenous malformations of the spinal cord. Clinical signs include sudden onset of radicular pain localizable to a dermatome with overlying cutaneous vascular lesions. Untreated, the clinical course follows a progression of sensory loss, weakness to paralysis and incontinence. However, clinical prognosis improves with endovascular embolization and/or surgical excision of the spinal lesion.
congenital myoblastoma	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
unilateral cleft upper lip	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on one side only. [HPO:probinson]
roberts syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
agomphosis	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
fetal anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
teeth; absent	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
accessory cusp of tooth	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
early loss of deciduous teeth	Loss of the primary (also known as deciduous) teeth before the usual age. [HPO:sdoelken]
alobar holoprosencephaly	A type of holoprosencephaly characterized by the presence of a single ventricle and no separation of the cerebral hemisphere. The single midline ventricle is often greatly enlarged. [gc:hpe]
atrophy/degeneration of the corpus callosum	The presence of atrophy (wasting) of the corpus callosum. [HPO:sdoelken]
cayler cardiofacial syndrome	Asymmetry observed in the face of a neonate or infant whose face appears symmetric at rest and asymmetric during crying as the mouth is pulled downward on one side while not moving on the other side. [HPO:cwright]
partial sacral agenesis	A developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum, which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae S1-S5, fail to form or fail to form normally. []
median prosencephalic arteriovenous fistula	Gross dilatation of the vein of Galen, being fed by large anomalous vessel or vessels arising from the carotid or basilar circulation. [UToronto:chum]
absent eyebrow	Absence of the eyebrow. [HPO:probinson]
double eyebrow	This may present as a partial or complete duplication of the eyebrows. [HPO:sdoelken]
lobulated tongue	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
lingual hamartomas	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
webbed penis	Ventral skinfold extending from penis to scrotum. [PMID:23650202]
cleft soft palate nos	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
soft cleft palate	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
giedion syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
hyperphosphatasemia tarda	An autosomal recessive form of craniotubular hyperostosis due to a 52-kb deletion in the SOST gene, encoding sclerostin. Clinical features include normal stature, enlarged jaw and facial bones, hearing loss, and facial palsy due to cranial nerve deficits. The absence of syndactyly distinguishes this condition from sclerosteosis.
isotretinoin embryopathy like syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
fetal thalidomide syndrome	Fetal embryopathy associated with maternal thalidomide use during pregnancy characterized by phocomelia of one or all limbs, other limb defects such as thumb abnormalities, and other structural anomalies that may include facial hemangioma, esophageal and duodenal atresia, tetralogy of Fallot, renal agenesis, and anomalies of the external ear. Long term complications may include Moebius syndrome or autism.
fetal methotrexate syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
retractile testis	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
thoracoabdominal syndrome	Rare congenital deformity syndrome characterized by a combination of five anomalies as a result of neural tube defect. The five anomalies are a midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect (e.g., OMPHALOCELE), a lower STERNUM defect, a congenital intracardiac defect, an anterior DIAPHRAGM defect, and a diaphragmatic PERICARDIUM defect (e.g., PERICARDIAL EFFUSION). Variants with incomplete and variable combinations of the defects are known. ECTOPIA CORDIS; CLEFT LIP; and CLEFT PALATE are often associated with the syndrome.
single nostril	The presence of only a single nostril. [PMID:19152422]
rhinocephaly	A congenital anatomic defect characterised by the presence of a proboscis-like nose located above the eyes, which are partially or completely fused.
acephalostomia	Absence of the head but with the presence of mouth-like orifice in the neck region. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
cns vascular malformation	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
vascular malformation of the cns	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
rathke cleft cyst	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
rathke pouch cyst	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
rathkes cleft cyst	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
smith-magenis syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by an interstitial deletion in chromosome 17p11.2. It is characterized by mild to moderate mental retardation, distinctive facial features (flat head, square face, and deep set-eyes), sleep disturbances, attention deficit disorders, and temper tantrums.
hypospadias	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is below its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the ventral surface of the PENIS or on the PERINEUM. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is in the VAGINA.
carpenter syndrome	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
foetal akinesia sequence	Decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures, facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia. Ultrasound examination may reveal polyhydramnios, ankylosis, scalp edema, and decreased chest movements (reflecting pulmonary hypoplasia). [HPO:probinson]
false anodontia	Absence of teeth as a result of impaction, delayed eruption, exfoliation or extraction.
abnormal tooth count	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
glial remnants posterior to lens	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
two vessel umbilical cord	Congenital abnormality where one, instead of the usual two, UMBILICAL ARTERY connects the fetus to the placenta.
hypospadias; coronal	A mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis. [HPO:probinson]
vein of galen malformations	Congenital arteriovenous malformation involving the VEIN OF GALEN, a large deep vein at the base of the brain. The rush of arterial blood directly into the vein of Galen, without passing through the CAPILLARIES, can overwhelm the heart and lead to CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
vacterl syndrome	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
otopalatodigital syndrome	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
congenital vascular malformation	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
bronchus suis	Accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:11158647, PMID:19332762]
hypocalcification of enamel of teeth	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
cofs syndrome	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
anomalies congenital multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
congen. resp. anomalies nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
abnormality of the neck	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
heterotopias	A mass of histologically normal tissue present in an abnormal location.
univentricular heart	An umbrella term used to describe several very different complex congenital heart defects that share the same problem: the heart has only one functional ventricle (anatomically right or left or indeterminate) supplying the systemic circulation. These defects include tricuspid atresia, hypoplastic left or right heart syndrome, double outlet right ventricle, double inlet left ventricle, and other forms of single ventricle defects.
vascular anomalies	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
guerin stern syndrome	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
bladder; extroversion	A birth defect in which the URINARY BLADDER is malformed and exposed, inside out, and protruded through the ABDOMINAL WALL. It is caused by closure defects involving the top front surface of the bladder, as well as the lower abdominal wall; SKIN; MUSCLES; and the pubic bone.
congenital telangiectatic erythema syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectatic ERYTHEMA of the face, photosensitivity, DWARFISM and other abnormalities, and a predisposition toward developing cancer. The Bloom syndrome gene (BLM) encodes a RecQ-like DNA helicase.
congenital atresia of choana	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
ciliary dyskinesia	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
cockayne syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple system abnormalities including DWARFISM; PHOTOSENSITIVITY DISORDERS; PREMATURE AGING; and HEARING LOSS. It is caused by mutations of a number of autosomal recessive genes encoding proteins that involve transcriptional-coupled DNA REPAIR processes. Cockayne syndrome is classified by the severity and age of onset. Type I (classical; CSA) is early childhood onset in the second year of life; type II (congenital; CSB) is early onset at birth with severe symptoms; type III (xeroderma pigmentosum; XP) is late childhood onset with mild symptoms.
gaps between teeth	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
diastema	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
semicircular tooth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
hypodontia	The absence of five or less teeth from the normal series by a failure to develop. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
kartagener triad	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
giedion langer syndrome	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
congenital malformation of mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
natal teeth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
turner-like syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
lowe dis	A sex-linked recessive disorder affecting multiple systems including the EYE, the NERVOUS SYSTEM, and the KIDNEY. Clinical features include congenital CATARACT; MENTAL RETARDATION; and renal tubular dysfunction (FANCONI SYNDROME; RENAL TUBULAR ACIDOSIS; X-LINKED HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA or vitamin-D-resistant rickets) and SCOLIOSIS. This condition is due to a deficiency of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-5-phosphatase leading to defects in PHOSPHATIDYLINOSITOL metabolism and INOSITOL signaling pathway. (from Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p60; Am J Hum Genet 1997 Jun;60(6):1384-8)
papillon-lefevre syndrome	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
cysts fimbrial	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
rothmund-thomson syndrome	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
willi-prader syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
prune-belly syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
congenital abnormality of respiratory system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
rubenstein-taybi syndrome	A chromosomal disorder characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION, broad thumbs, webbing of fingers and toes, beaked nose, short upper lip, pouting lower lip, agenesis of corpus callosum, large foramen magnum, keloid formation, pulmonary stenosis, vertebral anomalies, chest wall anomalies, sleep apnea, and megacolon. The disease has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance and is associated with deletions of the short arm of chromosome 16 (16p13.3).
fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
sturge	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
fallot; tetralogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
thanatophoric short stature	A severe form of neonatal dwarfism with very short limbs. All cases have died at birth or later in the neonatal period.
malformed tooth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
teeth; anomaly	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
teeth malformation	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
crowded teeth	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
dental crowding	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
werner's syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
single brain ventricle	Anterior midline brain, cranial, and facial malformations resulting from the failure of the embryonic prosencephalon to undergo segmentation and cleavage. Alobar prosencephaly is the most severe form and features anophthalmia; cyclopia; severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY; CLEFT LIP; CLEFT PALATE; SEIZURES; and microcephaly. Semilobar holoprosencepaly is characterized by hypotelorism, microphthalmia, coloboma, nasal malformations, and variable degrees of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Lobar holoprosencephaly is associated with mild (or absent) facial malformations and intellectual abilities that range from mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY to normal. Holoprosencephaly is associated with CHROMOSOME ABNORMALITIES.
alagille-watson syndrome	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
annular; pancreas	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
palate cleft lip	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
cleft lip palate	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
salivary gland absence	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
agenesis; salivary gland	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
urinary system congenital anomalies	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
happy puppet syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
dubowitz's syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, and a small, round, triangular shaped face with a pointed, receding chin, a broad, wide-tipped nose, and wide-set eyes with drooping eyelids.
silver russell dwarfism	Genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by low birth weight, postnatal growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, bilateral body asymmetry, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers. Alterations in GENETIC IMPRINTING are involved. Hypomethylation of IGF2/H19 locus near an imprinting center region of chromosome 11p15 plays a role in a subset of Silver-Russell syndrome. Hypermethylation of the same chromosomal region, on the other hand, can cause BECKWITH-WIEDEMANN SYNDROME. Maternal UNIPARENTAL DISOMY for chromosome 7 is known to play a role in its etiology.
sotos	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
van der woude syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
ghost teeth	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
type v acrocephalosyndactyly	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
pfeiffer syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
mobius syndromes	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
port-wine stain	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
port-wine stains	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
valproic acid embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to valproic acid during pregnancy. Manifestations include musculoskeletal abnormalities, intellectual disability, spina bifida, and distinctive facial features.
male pseudohermaphroditism nos	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
microdontia	Decreased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD below mean. Alternatively, an apparently decreased maximum width of tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
byzanthine arch palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
crossbite	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
cross bite	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
desanctis cacchione syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome. It is characterized by xeroderma pigmentosum, mental retardation, dwarfism, hypogonadism, and neurologic abnormalities.
fetal face syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive or dominant inherited disorder. The autosomal recessive form is caused by mutations in the ROR2 gene. There is no causative mutation identified for the autosomal dominant form. It is manifested with short limbs, abnormal facial features, underdeveloped genitalia, and wedge-shaped vertebrae.
meckel-gruber syndrome	A rare, lethal, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypoplasia, central nervous system malformations, and hepatic malformations.
schinzel-giedion midface retraction syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutation(s) in the SETBP1 gene, encoding SET-binding protein. It is characterized by unique facial features, including midface hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
marshall syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(XI) chain. The syndrome may be characterized by facial dysmorphism, cataracts, myopia, hearing loss, and short stature. Mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene are causative in Stickler syndrome, but the phenotype of Marshall syndrome is more mild.
otomandibular dysostosis	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
townes-brocks syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
coffin-lowry syndrome	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
stickler dysplasia	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
evmps	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
metaphyseal chondrodysplasia murk jansen type	A form of metaphyseal chondrodysplasia caused by mutation(s) in the PTH1R gene, encoding parathyroid hormone/parathyroid hormone-related peptide receptor. This condition is characterized by severe short stature, short bowed limbs, clinodactyly, prominent upper face, and a small mandible. Hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia due to PTH resistance can appear later in childhood.
spondylocostal dysostosis	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
fetal hydantoin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
phenytoin embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
ectopic tooth	<p>Ectopic tooth</p>
tooth mass excess	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
peg-shaped tooth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
bull teeth	Increased volume of dental pulp of permanent molar characterized by a crown body-root ratio equal or larger than 1:1 or an elongated pulp chambers and apical displacement of the bifurcation or trifurcation of the roots. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
premature; tooth eruption	Premature tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD earlier than the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
posterior dental crossbite	<p>Posterior crossbite</p>
posterior openbite	<p>Posterior open bite</p>
bifid tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
congenital absence of uvula	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
genitalia external ambiguous	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
congenital uterine anomaly	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterine anomalies	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
unicornis uterus	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
hypoplastic uterus	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
imperforate vagina	Embryologic remnant consisting of a persistent connective tissue membrane within the vaginal vault.
congenital anomaly of ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
heterotaxia	The abnormal arrangement or position of thoracic and/or abdominal organs in relation to each other, often occurring in a right/left transposition.
cyclopia	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
synotus	A congenital malformation characterized by the union or approximation of the ears in front of the neck, often accompanied by the absence or defective development of the lower jaw. [HPO:sdoelken]
de lange	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
caudal regression	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by partial or complete absence of the lower portion of the spine.
capillary malformation	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
thyroid hypoplasia	Incomplete development of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
fetal iodine deficiency disorder	Severely reduced physical and mental growth associated with pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, due to dietary iodine deficiency.
adrenal hyperplasia i	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
lenticonus posterior	A conical projection of the posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:gblack]
alacrima	Absence of tear secretion. [HPO:probinson]
exstrophy of cloaca sequence	Cloacal exstrophy is a severe anterior abdominal wall defect in which the two hemibladders are visible and are separated by a midline intestinal plate, an omphalocele, and an imperforate anus. [HPO:probinson]
vaginal hypoplasia	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
cyst of hydatid of morgagni	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
sc pseudothalidomide syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
anodontia	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
anomaly anomaly congen	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
aec syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
syndrome aec	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
dysplastic sacrum	A developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum, which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae S1-S5, fail to form or fail to form normally. []
synophrys	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
duplication of eyebrow	This may present as a partial or complete duplication of the eyebrows. [HPO:sdoelken]
lingual hamartoma	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
congenital anatomical abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
cleft soft palate	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
submucous cleft hard palate	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
wolcott-rallison syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the EIF2AK3 gene, which encodes translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase-3. The condition is characterized by the following: permanent insulin-dependent diabetes, with onset in the neonatal period or infancy; epiphyseal dysplasia; deficient bone mineralization, diagnosed in the first year or two of life; and liver dysfunction, occurring in early childhood. Other features may include intellectual deficit, hypothyroidism, renal dysfunction, neutropenia, and thyroid dysfunction. The manifestations and clinical course are variable.
van buchem disease	An autosomal recessive form of craniotubular hyperostosis due to a 52-kb deletion in the SOST gene, encoding sclerostin. Clinical features include normal stature, enlarged jaw and facial bones, hearing loss, and facial palsy due to cranial nerve deficits. The absence of syndactyly distinguishes this condition from sclerosteosis.
endosteal hyperostoses with cerebellar hypoplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital cerebellar hypoplasia, endosteal sclerosis, hypotonia, ataxia, mild to moderate developmental delay, short stature, hip dislocation, and tooth eruption disturbances. It has been described in four patients. Less common manifestations are microcephaly, strabismus, nystagmus, optic atrophy and dysarthria. It is appears to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
accutane embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
thalidomide embryopathy syndrome	Fetal embryopathy associated with maternal thalidomide use during pregnancy characterized by phocomelia of one or all limbs, other limb defects such as thumb abnormalities, and other structural anomalies that may include facial hemangioma, esophageal and duodenal atresia, tetralogy of Fallot, renal agenesis, and anomalies of the external ear. Long term complications may include Moebius syndrome or autism.
hepatic arteriovenous malformation	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the liver.
congenital arteriovenous malformation of retina	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
congenital arteriovenous anomaly of retina	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
parachute malformation of mitral valve	Abnormality of the mitral valve apparatus, whereby chordae attach to a single papillary muscle or hypoplastic papillary muscles. [DDD:dbrown]
dental overjet	Přesah horních řezáků před dolními v horizontálním směru. Mírný p. je fyziologický, je dán větší šířkou horního zubního oblouku. Při poruchách mezičelistních vztahů může dojít ke skusu "hrana na hranu\" nebo k obrácenému skusu, kdy dolní řezáky stojí před horními. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
single naris	The presence of only a single nostril. [PMID:19152422]
central nervous system vascular malformations	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
bardet-biedl syndrome	En autosomal, recessiv störning kännetecknad av retinitis pigmentosa, polydaktyli, övervikt, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, hypogenitalism, njurdysplasi och kortvuxenhet. Syndromet skiljer sig från Laurence-Moons syndrom.
suprasellar cyst	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
myhre syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SMAD4 gene. It is characterized by developmental abnormalities, mild to moderate intellectual disability, hearing loss, skin stiffness, skeletal abnormalities, and typical facial features (short palpebral fissures, shortened distance between the nose and upper lip, midface hypoplasia, prognathism, cleft palate, and/or cleft lip).
hajdu-cheney syndrome	Rare, autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by ACRO-OSTEOLYSIS, generalized OSTEOPOROSIS, and skull deformations.
arteriovenous malformation of cerebral vessels	An anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the brain. []
pena-shokeir syndrome type i	Decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures, facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia. Ultrasound examination may reveal polyhydramnios, ankylosis, scalp edema, and decreased chest movements (reflecting pulmonary hypoplasia). [HPO:probinson]
abnormal number of teeth	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
agenesis of permanent dentition	A congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth, including oligodontia, hypodontia, and adontia of the of permanent teeth. [HPO:probinson]
cleft lip & alveolus	<p>Cleft lip & alveolus</p>
mittendorf's dot	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
raine dysplasia	A rare disorder defined by generalised osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation, characteristic facial dysmorphism, brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications, and neonatal lethal course. Mutations in the FAM20C gene have a causative role in lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
penoscrotal transposition	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the partial or complete transposition of the penis and scrotum. In cases of complete penoscrotal transposition, the scrotum is positioned anteriorly and above the penis. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
vm - vascular malformation	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
cleft secondary palate	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
fetal alcohol spectrum disorder	A group of disorders caused by a prenatal exposure to maternal consumption of alcohol leading to a range of behavioral, cognitive and neurological deficits in the offspring. It is characterized by physical growth problems, distinct facies, and varying psycho-neurological issues.
displaced lobar tracheal bronchus	Accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:11158647, PMID:19332762]
hypothyroidism congenital with cretinism	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth and caused by iodine deficiency.
hypocalcification of enamel of tooth	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
disturbance; learning	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
development delay	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
child developmental delay	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
delayed developmental milestones	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
development delay nos	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
congenital qualifier	Denoting something that is present at birth.
multiple abnormalities	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
albinismus	General term for a number of inherited defects of amino acid metabolism in which there is a deficiency or absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, or hair.
amelogenesis imperfecta	A clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of hereditary conditions characterized by malformed DENTAL ENAMEL, usually involving DENTAL ENAMEL HYPOPLASIA and/or TOOTH HYPOMINERALIZATION.
anophthalmia	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
chiari malformations	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
cleft; palate	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
ocular coloboma	Congenital anomaly in which some of the structures of the eye are absent due to incomplete fusion of the fetal intraocular fissure during gestation.
spinal meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
engelmann disease	An autosomal dominant form of dysplasia that is characterized by progressive thickening of diaphyseal cortex of long bones. Mutations in the gene that encodes TRANSFORMING GROWTH FACTOR BETA1 are one cause of this disorder.
mongolism	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
ectodermal dysplasia	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectopia cordis	A rare developmental defect in which the heart is abnormally located partially or totally outside the THORAX. It is the result of defective fusion of the anterior chest wall. Depending on the location of the heart, ectopia cordis can be thoracic, thoracoabdominal, abdominal, and cervical.
ectopia lentis	Congenital displacement of the lens resulting from defective zonule formation.
complex; eisenmenger	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
endocardial cushion defect	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
hirschsprung disease	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hutchinson's incisors	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
pulmonary infundibular stenoses	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
anomaly; respiratory system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
symelia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
tooth abnormalities	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
fallot's trilogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of three key features including ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; and RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY.
conjoined twins	MONOZYGOTIC TWINS who are joined in utero. They may be well developed and share only a superficial connection, often in the frontal, transverse or sagittal body plane, or they may share a partial duplication of a body structure. Alternatively, there may be a small and incompletely developed twin conjoined to a larger, more fully developed twin.
branchial cleft anomalies	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
spinal dysraphism	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
microtia	Underdevelopment of the external ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421, PMID:3270622]
polydactyly	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
hydromyelia	Dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo. [HPO:sdoelken]
preauricular cyst	Preauricular sinus is an occasional finding and most frequently appears as a small pit close to the anterior margin of the ascending portion of the helix. The opening has also been reported along the postero superior margin of the helix, the tragus or the lobule. Preauricular sinus may lead to the formation of a subcutaneous cyst that is intimately related to the tragal cartilage and the anterior crus of the helix. [PMID:24427573]
cervical rib	A supernumerary rib developing from an abnormal enlargement of the costal element of the C7 vertebra. This anomaly is found in 1-2% of the population and can put pressure on adjacent structures causing CERVICAL RIB SYNDROME; THORACIC OUTLET SYNDROME; or other conditions.
caroli's syndrome	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
cah - congenital adrenal hypoplasia	A rare genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It usually presents in infancy with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. If it is not recognized and treated promptly, it may be lethal.
congenital webbing of neck	A congenital, usually bilateral, thick web-like fold of skin that extends from the acromion to the mastoid process. This deformity is associated with Turner Syndrome and Noonan Syndrome.
ectopic kidney	A developmental defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal anatomic position. [HPO:probinson]
adactyly	The absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues. [PMID:19125433]
palate high-arched	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
jeune syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by a narrow thorax, micromelia, and respiratory disturbances which may lead to asphyxiation. It may be associated with bilateral microcystic renal disease which may lead to renal failure.
marchesani weill syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
cat-eye syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
bone island	An osteoma that develops in the medullary cavity of the bone.
scaphycephaly	Premature fusion of the sagittal suture.
cranioschisis	Fissure of the cranial region of the head with varying degrees of the brain exposed. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
ectrodactyly	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
carpal bones; accessory	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
congenital pseudarthrosis of tibia	A condition characterized by non-union of the tibia, which is present at birth. It is usually associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.
bipartite patella	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
congenital kyphosis	An abnormally increased curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine that is present at the time of birth.
congenital; hunchback	An abnormally increased curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine that is present at the time of birth.
congenital postural scoliosis	Abnormal sideways curvature of the spine that is present at birth.
arrhinia	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
congenital alopecia	A congenital condition characterized by the absence of hair on the scalp or entire body. The lack of hair is rarely absolute and is usually accompanied by incompletely grown, lanugo-like hair. It affects males twice as much as females and a familial tendency is common.
anonychia	Aplasia of the nail. [HPO:probinson]
digestive system abnormalities	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
mesiodens	A supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:18262485, PMID:31468724]
peg-shaped teeth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
microgastria	A developmental anomaly wtih a small tubular or saccular midline stomach. [PMID:10067744]
pancreas; hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
aberrant adrenal gland	Abnormal anatomical location of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
congenital solitary kidney	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of only one kidney.
hypoplastic kidney	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
accessory kidney	A congenital anomaly of the urinary tract, in which the kidney is duplicated and is drained via two separate renal pelves and ureters. [HPO:probinson]
congenital lobulation of kidneys	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
fused kidneys	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
microcystic renal disease	A congenital renal disorder characterized by the presence of small cysts in the renal cortex and/or renal medulla.
atresia; ureter	A developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen (tube) of the ureter. [HPO:probinson]
hydroureter - congenital	Dilatation of the ureter caused by obstruction of urine flow that is present at birth.
ectopic ovary	Undescended or ectopic ovaries are characterized by the attachment of the upper pole of the ovary to an area above the level of the common iliac vessels. [PMID:12584384]
agenesis of uterus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
uterus didelphic	A malformation of the uterus in which the uterus is present as a paired organ as a result of the failure of fusion of the mullerian ducts during embryogenesis. [HPO:probinson]
aplasia of the cervix	Congenital absence of the cervix. []
septate vagina	The presence of a vaginal septum, thereby creating a vaginal duplication. The septum is longitudinal in the majority of cases. [HPO:curators]
synechia vulvae	Synechia vulvae (adhesions of the labia minora) are characterized by a complete or partial fusion of the labia minora in the midline. [PMID:17364294, PMID:29262197]
polyorchidism	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of the vas deferens	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
amyelia	Congenital absence of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
eyelid; accessory	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
congenital ear malformation nos	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
external acoustic meatus atresia	Absence or failure to form of the external auditory canal. [HPO:probinson]
preauricular appendage	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
preauricular lobule	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
spleen; accessory	Homogeneous organ, each instance of which is a connected or detached part or enclave of some spleen.
ectopic spleen	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
acardiac monster	A condition which occurs in monozygotic twins in which one of the fetuses supplies the majority of the cardiac output to its co-twin through its umbilical artery. The recipient twin has only rudimentary organs and structure and is not viable.
usher's syndrome	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
aplasia cutis congenita	Localized or widespread congenital absence of skin. The lesions most frequently occur in the scalp, are well demarcated, may be superficial or deep, and are not associated with inflammation.
congenital thyroid hypoplasia	Incomplete development of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
lacrimal duct atresia	A developmental disorder of the lacrimal drainage system that most often affects the lacrimal ostium and resulting in non-opening of the nasolacrimal duct. It usually results from a non-canalization of the nasolacrimal duct. [HPO:probinson]
cornea plana	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
cor triloculare	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only three chambers.
mitral valve atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
totally absent pericardium	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
urachal fistula	Persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus. [Eurenomics:ewuehl]
cor triloculare biventriculare	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
lymphatic malformation	Medfödda eller förvärvade strukturella avvikelser i lymfsystemet, inklusive lymfkärlen.
complete congenital absence of teeth	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
skeletal dysplasia	A general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues. [HPO:probinson]
carpal bone fusion	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
coloboma; eyelid	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
kidney; agenesis	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
cleft; nails	A digit with two nails, with at least some soft tissue between them. [PMID:19125433]
branchial fistula	A congenital fistula in the neck resulting from incomplete closure of a branchial cleft. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital asplenia	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
hypoplasia of the radius	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
facial clefts	A congenital malformation with a cleft (gap or opening) in the face. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of the ovary	Developmental hypoplasia of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
congenital small thymus	Underdevelopment of the thymus. [HPO:curators]
thymic; aplasia	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
acrania	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
thyroid agenesis	Absence of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
rathke's cleft cyst	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
sternum bifidum	The sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomalies - cvs	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
congenital absence of penis	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
congenital; hypotrichosis	A congenital condition, usually due to genetic aberrations, that is characterized by a lack of hair growth on the head and/or body.
multiple congenital malformations	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
ectromelia	Gross hypo- or aplasia of one or more long bones of one or more limbs. The concept includes amelia, hemimelia, phocomelia, and sirenomelia.
chested funnel	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
hemimelia	A congenital malformation characterized by the partial or total absence of the distal half of a limb.
brachydactyly nos	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
twisted hair	Pili (from Latin pilus, hair) torti (from Latin tortus, twisted) refers to short and brittle hairs that appear flattened and twisted when viewed through a microscope. [HPO:probinson]
asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by a narrow thorax, micromelia, and respiratory disturbances which may lead to asphyxiation. It may be associated with bilateral microcystic renal disease which may lead to renal failure.
anomaly; hip	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
cornea flattening	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
megalocornea	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
camptodactyly	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
fine-lubinsky syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor delay, brachycephaly with flat face, small nose, microstomia, cleft palate, cataract, hearing loss, hypoplastic scrotum and digital anomalies. Less than 10 patients have been described in the literature so far. Although the majority of reported cases were sporadic, the syndrome has been reported in one pair of siblings (a brother and sister) with an apparently autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.
overbite	Increased superior-inferior overlap of the maxillary central incisors over the mandibular central incisors relative to the incisal ridges.
daish hardman lamont syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in two sisters and with the presence of hydrocephalus (onset in infancy), tall stature, joint laxity, and thoracolumbar kyphosis. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1989.
cumming syndrome	The association of limb defects and multivisceral anomalies. The syndrome has been reported in eight infants from four different families. Skeletal features include tetramelic campomelia and short long bones. Extraskeletal manifestations may include cervical lymphocele, generalized hydrops, polycystic kidneys, pancreas and liver, fibrotic liver or pancreas, polysplenia, heterotaxia, hypoplastic lung, short bowel. All newborns reported so far were either stillborn or died shortly after birth.
rodriguez lethal acrofacial dysostosis syndrome	A multiple malformation syndrome in which mandibulofacial dysostosis and severe limb reduction defects are associated with complex malformations of different organs and systems especially the central nervous system, urogenital tract, heart, and lungs. The mandibulofacial defect causes death by respiratory distress. Limb reduction is severe and includes shoulder and pelvis hypoplasia, phocomelia with humerus hypoplasia, absent radius and ulna, complete absence of long bones of the legs, and various hand anomalies, predominantly preaxial reduction. These infants also show facial dysmorphism and ear anomalies. The condition is a rare with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. The prognosis is poor and this condition leads to death in utero or shortly after birth.
radio-renal syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of variable upper limb reduction defects and renal anomalies. Patients typically present absence/hypoplasia of digits, radii and/or ulnae, short stature and mild external ear malformation, as well as kidney agenesis or ectopia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1983.
clinodactyly	An angulation of a digit at an interphalangeal joint in the plane of the palm (finger) or sole (toe). [PMID:16252026]
congenital short bowel syndrome	A rare intestinal disorder of neonates of unknown aetiology. Patients are born with a short small bowel (less than 75 cm in length) that compromises proper intestinal absorption and leads chronic diarrhoea, vomiting and failure to thrive.
atresia of posterior nares	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal atresias	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
cleidocranial dysplasia	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
congenital talipes equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
club foot congenital	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
talipes equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
club foot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
foot deformity congen	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
malformation foot	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
deformity congen foot	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
feet deformities	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital foot deformities	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
pectus excavatum	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
cobbler's chest	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
talipes valgus	Outward turning of the heel, resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
pectus carinatum	A clinical finding in which there is protuberance of the sternum visible on examination of the chest.
vertical talus	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
'rocker bottom' feet	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
congenital deformity of hip joint	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
hip; anomaly	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
talipes; equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
talipes calcaneovarus	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital metatarsus primus varus	Angulation of the first metatarsal bone towards the midline. This is associated with angulation of the phalanges of the same toe away from the midline (HALLUX VALGUS).
patella; bipartite	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nasal deformity	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformations of nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity of nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nose malformation	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
lop ear	Anterior and inferior folding of the upper portion of the ear that obliterates triangular fossa and scapha. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
mgcn - megalocornea	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
simple ears	The pinna has fewer folds and grooves than usual. [PMID:15523657]
thoracoschisis	A congenital fissure of the thoracic wall.
congenital cavus foot	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
amniotic bands constriction	Annular constrictions around the digits, limbs, or trunk, occurring congenitally (sometimes causing intrauterine autoamputation) and also associated with a wide variety of disorders. Constrictive amniotic bands are the result of primary amniotic rupture, which can lead to entanglement of fetal tissue (especially limbs) in fibrous amniotic strands. [HPO:probinson]
goldblatt viljoen radial ray hypoplasia	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
congenital tubular nose	A rare congenital facial abnormality with manifestation of failed development of the external nose on one side that is replaced by a tubular structure composed of skin and soft tissue usually attached at the inner canthus of the eye. The disorder is therefore often associated with maldevelopment of the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses of the affected side. Also associated with other craniofacial abnormalities such as orbital anomalies and cleft lip/palate.
congenital dysplasia of the hip	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
volvulus neonatorum	A congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated (twisted). It may result in intestinal obstruction.
heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
congenital fissure	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
apert syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
syndactylic oxycephaly	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
apert's syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
anencephaly	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
angiomatosis	A condition with multiple tumor-like lesions caused either by congenital or developmental malformations of BLOOD VESSELS, or reactive vascular proliferations, such as in bacillary angiomatosis. Angiomatosis is considered non-neoplastic.
irideremia	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
coarctation of aorta	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
aortic supravalvular stenosis	A pathological constriction occurring in the region above the AORTIC VALVE. It is characterized by restricted outflow from the LEFT VENTRICLE into the AORTA.
septal defect aortopulm	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
arnold-chiari syndrome	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
syndrome otto	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
basal cell nevus syndrome	Hereditary disorder consisting of multiple basal cell carcinomas, odontogenic keratocysts, and multiple skeletal defects, e.g., frontal and temporoparietal bossing, bifurcated and splayed ribs, kyphoscoliosis, fusion of vertebrae, and cervicothoracic spina bifida. Genetic transmission is autosomal dominant.
blindness congenital	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital blindness	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
blindness present at birth	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital amaurosis	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
branchial cysts	A tumor derived from branchial epithelium or branchial rests. (Dorland, 27th ed)
genetic disorder carrier	an individual who is heterozygous for a recessive gene and thus does not express the recessive phenotype but can transmit the gene to offspring.
choledochal cyst	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
congenital anomaly of cartilage	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
cartilage development disorder	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
chromosomal anomalies nos	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosome anomaly nos	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal hereditary disorder	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
deletion chromosome	Actual loss of portion of a chromosome.
cl - cleft lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft lip nos	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft palate nos	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
palate; cleft	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
cleidocranial dysostosis	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
clubfoot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital clubfoot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
coloboma	Congenital anomaly in which some of the structures of the eye are absent due to incomplete fusion of the fetal intraocular fissure during gestation.
common bile duct calculus	Žlučové kaménky, které se vyskytují v hlavním žlučovodu (ductus choledochus), ale obvykle vznikají ve žlučníku.
calculus of common bile duct	Žlučové kaménky, které se vyskytují v hlavním žlučovodu (ductus choledochus), ale obvykle vznikají ve žlučníku.
anomalous pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
a.pulmonalis; anomaly	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital pulmonary artery anomaly	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pa - pulmonary artery abnormality	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hepatic fibrosis	A congenital disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It affects the hepatobiliary system and the kidneys. It is characterized by liver fibrosis, portal hypertension, and renal cysts.
accessory atrium	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
premature closure of cranial sutures	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
criss cross heart	A developmental malformation of the heart characterized by a twisted but not defective atrioventicular connection. The abnormal rotation of the ventricular mass around its long axis results in the crossing of the inflow streams of the two ventricles. Other features include hypoplasia of the TRICUSPID VALVE and RIGHT VENTRICLE.
undescended testicle nos	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
undescended testis	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
undescended testicle	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
dandy syndrome walkers	A congenital abnormality of the central nervous system marked by failure of the midline structures of the cerebellum to develop, dilation of the fourth ventricle, and upward displacement of the transverse sinuses, tentorium, and torcula. Clinical features include occipital bossing, progressive head enlargement, bulging of anterior fontanelle, papilledema, ataxia, gait disturbances, nystagmus, and intellectual compromise. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, pp294-5)
dentigerous cyst	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
heterotopic polyodontia	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
dentinal dysplasia	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
split spinal cord	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
autosomal dominant opitz g-bbb syndrome	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
double right ventricle; outlet	Incomplete transposition of the great vessels in which both the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY arise from the RIGHT VENTRICLE. The only outlet of the LEFT VENTRICLE is a large ventricular septal defect (VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS or VSD). The various subtypes are classified by the location of the septal defect, such as subaortic, subpulmonary, or noncommitted.
mongoloidism	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
down syndrome	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
co-contractive retraction syndromes	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
patent ductus arteriosus	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
persistent ductus arteriosus	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
anomaly ebstein tricuspid valve	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
ebstein's anomaly	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
cong ectodermal dysplas	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectromelia of unspecified limb	Gross hypo- or aplasia of one or more long bones of one or more limbs. The concept includes amelia, hemimelia, phocomelia, and sirenomelia.
eisenmenger's syndrome	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmenger syndrome	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
defect; eisenmenger	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
endocardial cushion defect nos	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
lewandowsky-lutz disease	An autosomal recessive trait with impaired cell-mediated immunity. About 15 human papillomaviruses are implicated in associated infection, four of which lead to skin neoplasms. The disease begins in childhood with red papules and later spreads over the body as gray or yellow scales.
epispadias	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is above its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the top or the side of the PENIS, but the urethra can also be open the entire length of the penis. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is often between the CLITORIS and the labia, or in the ABDOMEN.
eye abnormality nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital eye disorder	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
goltz-gorlin syndrome	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
goltz syndrome	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
cyst eruption	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
eruption cyst	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
tooth eruption haematoma	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
congenital foot malformation nos	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital funnel chest	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
funnel chests	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
congenital pectus excavatum	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
funnel breast	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
hers disease	A hepatic GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE in which there is an apparent deficiency of hepatic phosphorylase (GLYCOGEN PHOSPHORYLASE, LIVER FORM) activity.
glycogen storage disease type viii	An x-linked recessive hepatic glycogen storage disease resulting from lack of expression of phosphorylase-b-kinase activity. Symptoms are relatively mild; hepatomegaly, increased liver glycogen, and decreased leukocyte phosphorylase are present. Liver shrinkage occurs in response to glucagon.
mixed gonadal dysgenesis	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
congenital hand malformation nos	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
congen hand deformities	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
heart malformation	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
defects septal	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
umbilical hernias	Protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents through the abdominal wall at the umbilicus.
lindau dis	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
von hippel-lindau syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
von hippel-lindau disease	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
macrocolon	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
megacolon congenital	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
congenital hydrocephalus	Hydrocephalus that is present at birth.
hypertelorism	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
excessive orbital separation	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
hypertelorism of orbit	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
ocular hypertelorism	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
orbital separation excessive	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
congenital ichthyosis	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
newborn lamellar exfoliations	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
ichthyosis congenita nos	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
incontinentia pigmenti of bloch-sulzberger	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
dubin-johnson syndrome	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
surdo-cardiac syndromes	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell-lange nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell and lange-nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
cardio-auditory syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
keratosis palmaris et plantaris	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
palmoplantar keratoses	Abnormal thickening of the skin localized to the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
cacchi-ricci syndrome	En icke ärftlig njursjukdom som kännetecknas av en onormal vidgning av samlingsrören i njurmärgen och njurpapillerna. Samlingsrören innehåller cystor eller utbuktningar fyllda med en geléartad substans eller små njurstenar, vilket kan leda till infektioner eller obstruktion. Svampnjure måste särskiljas från medfödd eller ärftlig polycystnjure.
xxy syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
xxy klinefelter's syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
xxy; syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
isolated levocardia	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
levocardia	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
lutembacher's syndrome	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
lutembachers syndrome	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
large tongues	The presence of an excessively large tongue, which may be congenital or may develop as a result of a tumor or edema due to obstruction of lymphatic vessels, or it may occur in association with hyperpituitarism or acromegaly. It also may be associated with malocclusion because of pressure of the tongue on the teeth. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
congenital macrostomia	Greatly exaggerated width of the mouth, resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes, with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear. The defect may be unilateral or bilateral. (Dorland, 27th ed)
wide mouth	Greatly exaggerated width of the mouth, resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes, with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear. The defect may be unilateral or bilateral. (Dorland, 27th ed)
large oral aperture	Greatly exaggerated width of the mouth, resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes, with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear. The defect may be unilateral or bilateral. (Dorland, 27th ed)
hemangiomata with dyschondroplasia	A rare non-inherited disorder primarily affecting the skin and skeletal system. It is classified as a mesodermal dysplasia. Clinical signs appear within the first decade and are characterized by multiple soft tissue hemiangiomas and enchondromas leading to skeletal deformities. Clinical course is progressive with variable development of associated malignancies.
majewski syndrome	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
eye; melanosis	A congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate-gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera . The conjunctiva are spared. []
ocular melanosis	A congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate-gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera . The conjunctiva are spared. []
mesenteric cyst	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
cysts mesentery	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
micrognathia of lower jaw	Abnormally small jaw.
mandibular retrognathia	Abnormally small jaw.
robin mandible	Abnormally small jaw.
micrognathism	Abnormally small jaw.
small lower jaw	Abnormally small jaw.
microstomia	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
narrow mouth	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
small mouth	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital malformations of mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
mouth abnormality	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital mouth malformation nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
mouth abnormalities	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
mouth abnorm	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
neonatal teeth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
tube neural defects	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neural tube defects	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neural tube defect	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neuroenteric cyst	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
von recklinghausen disease	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
neurofibromatosis i	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
noonan syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
pachydermoperiostosis of nail	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
osteopetrosis	Excessive formation of dense trabecular bone leading to pathological fractures; OSTEITIS; SPLENOMEGALY with infarct; ANEMIA; and extramedullary hemopoiesis (HEMATOPOIESIS, EXTRAMEDULLARY).
acrocephaly	Tvarová varianta brachycefalu, věžovitý tvar hlavy způsobený předčasnou synostózou příčných švů s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Hlava dělá dojem malého objemu, ale s nápadnou výškou, čelo je příkré a vysoké, orbity jsou úzké, vysoké a mělké. Oči prominují. Rozlišují se tři dědičné klinické varianty. 1. o. spojený s kraniostenózou a s atrofií nn. optici 2. o. spojený s familiárním hemolytickým ikterem 3. akrocefalická syndaktylie (Apertův syndrom).(cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
papillon lefevre syndrome	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
papillon-lefevre disease	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
juvenile periodontosis with hyperkeratosis	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
dentoalveolar cyst	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
dental root; cyst	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
periodontal cyst	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
ostium primum; persistent	A congenital defect in the atrial septum at the level of the atrioventricular valves, resulting in abnormalities in the mitral and/or tricuspid valve; this defect is most commonly seen in those with Trisomy 21.
perioral lentiginosis	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
peutz-jeghers syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
platybasia	A developmental deformity of the occipital bone and upper end of the cervical spine, in which the latter appears to have pushed the floor of the occipital bone upward. (Dorland, 27th ed)
polyploidy	The chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of CHROMOSOMES; includes triploidy (symbol: 3N), tetraploidy (symbol: 4N), etc.
polyploidies	The chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of CHROMOSOMES; includes triploidy (symbol: 3N), tetraploidy (symbol: 4N), etc.
adenomatous polyposis coli	A polyposis syndrome due to an autosomal dominant mutation of the APC genes (GENES, APC) on CHROMOSOME 5. The syndrome is characterized by the development of hundreds of ADENOMATOUS POLYPS in the COLON and RECTUM of affected individuals by early adulthood.
prognathism	A condition marked by abnormal protrusion of the mandible. (Dorland, 27th ed)
jaw protrusions	A condition marked by abnormal protrusion of the mandible. (Dorland, 27th ed)
eagle-barrett syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
subvalv stenoses pulm	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
subvalv pulm stenoses	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
receding chin	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
retrognathism	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
receding lower jaw	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
right-sided aortic arch	An anatomic abnormality that occurs during embryonic development, in which the aortic arch is right-sided.
right aortic arch	An anatomic abnormality that occurs during embryonic development, in which the aortic arch is right-sided.
saldino noonan syndrome	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
scimitar anomaly	An anomalous pulmonary venous return in which the right PULMONARY VEIN is not connected to the LEFT ATRIUM but to the INFERIOR VENA CAVA. Scimitar syndrome is named for the crescent- or Turkish sword-like shadow in the chest radiography and is often associated with hypoplasia of the right lung and right pulmonary artery, and dextroposition of the heart.
sex chromosome abnormality nos	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sympus	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
mermaid syndrome	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
sympodia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
situs inversus	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
situs transversus	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
transposition of viscera unspecified	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency disease	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
congenital skin disorder	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
congenital anomaly of skin	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
diseases genetic skin	Diseases of the skin with a genetic component, usually the result of various inborn errors of metabolism.
spina bifida aperta	A form of spinal dysraphism associated with a protruding cyst made up of either meninges (i.e., a MENINGOCELE) or meninges in combination with spinal cord tissue (i.e., a MENINGOMYELOCELE). These lesions are frequently associated with spinal cord dysfunction, HYDROCEPHALUS, and SYRINGOMYELIA. (From Davis et al., Textbook of Neuropathology, 2nd ed, pp224-5)
spina bifida cystica	A form of spinal dysraphism associated with a protruding cyst made up of either meninges (i.e., a MENINGOCELE) or meninges in combination with spinal cord tissue (i.e., a MENINGOMYELOCELE). These lesions are frequently associated with spinal cord dysfunction, HYDROCEPHALUS, and SYRINGOMYELIA. (From Davis et al., Textbook of Neuropathology, 2nd ed, pp224-5)
sturge-weber disease	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
schirmer's syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sturge disease	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sturge-weber sequence	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndrome webers	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
fallot's tetralogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
supernumerary tooth	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
great vessels transpositions	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
arteries great transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition; great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
complete transposition of great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
complete transposition of great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of the great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
great vessels transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
aorta-pulmonary art transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
tricuspid valve prolapses	Abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of TRICUSPID VALVE into the RIGHT ATRIUM during SYSTOLE. This allows the backflow of blood into right atrium leading to TRICUSPID VALVE INSUFFICIENCY; SYSTOLIC MURMURS. Its most common cause is not primary valve abnormality but rather the dilation of the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the tricuspid annulus.
tricuspid valve prolapse	Abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of TRICUSPID VALVE into the RIGHT ATRIUM during SYSTOLE. This allows the backflow of blood into right atrium leading to TRICUSPID VALVE INSUFFICIENCY; SYSTOLIC MURMURS. Its most common cause is not primary valve abnormality but rather the dilation of the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the tricuspid annulus.
fallots trilogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of three key features including ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; and RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY.
persistent truncus arteriosus	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
tuberous sclerosis complex	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
tuberous sclerosis	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
xo syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
urogenital abnorm	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
genitourinary tract anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
genitourinary congenital anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
xeroderma pigmentosum	A rare, pigmentary, and atrophic autosomal recessive disease. It is manifested as an extreme photosensitivity to ULTRAVIOLET RAYS as the result of a deficiency in the enzyme that permits excisional repair of ultraviolet-damaged DNA.
ocular albinism	Albinism affecting the eye in which pigment of the hair and skin is normal or only slightly diluted. The classic type is X-linked (Nettleship-Falls), but an autosomal recessive form also exists. Ocular abnormalities may include reduced pigmentation of the iris, nystagmus, photophobia, strabismus, and decreased visual acuity.
branchial cleft malformations	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
branchial cleft	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
congenital bullous ichthyosiform erythroderma	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
congen nonbullous ichthyosiform erythroderma	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica	Form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by atrophy of blistered areas, severe scarring, and nail changes. It is most often present at birth or in early infancy and occurs in both autosomal dominant and recessive forms. All forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa result from mutations in COLLAGEN TYPE VII, a major component fibrils of BASEMENT MEMBRANE and EPIDERMIS.
junctional epidermolysis bullosa	Form of epidermolysis bullosa having onset at birth or during the neonatal period and transmitted through autosomal recessive inheritance. It is characterized by generalized blister formation, extensive denudation, and separation and cleavage of the basal cell plasma membranes from the basement membrane.
ichthyosis vulgaris	Most common form of ICHTHYOSIS characterized by prominent scaling especially on the exterior surfaces of the extremities. It is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
x-linked ichthyosis	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
spina bifida occulta	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
occulta - spina bifida	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
split spine	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spina bifida	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spinal myelocele	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
tethered spinal cord syndrome	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
hailey disease	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
alagille syndrome	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
disease infants kidney polycystic	A genetic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance, characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS and associated LIVER lesions. Serious manifestations are usually present at BIRTH with high PERINATAL MORTALITY.
myeloceles	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
bicuspid aortic valve	The presence of an aortic valve with two instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). Bicuspid aortic valvue is a malformation of a commissure (small space between the attachment of each cusp to the aortic wall) and the adjacent parts of the two corresponding cusps forming a raphe (the fused area of the two underdeveloped cusps turning into a malformed commissure between both cusps; the raphe is a fibrous ridge that extends from the commissure to the free edge of the two underdeveloped, conjoint cusps). [HPO:probinson, PMID:17467434, PMID:24827036]
congenital malformations of musculoskeletal system	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital heart disorder	imperfections or malformations of the heart, existing at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation.
patau syndrome	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
edwards	a kind of genetic disease
ankyloblepharon	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
fused eyelids	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
fused eyelid	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
iniencephalies	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
iniencephaly nos	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
iniencephalus	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
ankyloglossia	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
fused to floor of mouth	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
tongue-tie	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
ties tongue	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
interrupted aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
interruption of aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
cranial rachischisis	A rare and severe form of neural tube defect in which there are open cranial and open spinal defects at birth.
eyelid vascular disorder nos	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
coloboma of optic disc	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
cyst; preauricular	Preauricular sinus is an occasional finding and most frequently appears as a small pit close to the anterior margin of the ascending portion of the helix. The opening has also been reported along the postero superior margin of the helix, the tragus or the lobule. Preauricular sinus may lead to the formation of a subcutaneous cyst that is intimately related to the tragal cartilage and the anterior crus of the helix. [PMID:24427573]
congenital aortic regurgitation	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congenital insufficiency of aortic valve	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congen mitral stenosis	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital mitral stenosis	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
partial anomalous pulmonary venous return	A congenital heart disorder in which one or two pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the right atrium instead. It may lead to arrhythmias and pulmonary hypertension.
cleft palate & lip nos	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
absence of tongue	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
urinary tract malformation	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital urinary tract anomaly nos	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
radioulnar synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the ulna. [HPO:probinson]
macrodactylia of toe	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hydrocele of tunica vaginalis	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
hydrocele; congenital	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
anhidrotic dysplasia ectodermal	An X-linked form of ectodermal dysplasia which results from mutations of the gene encoding ECTODYSPLASIN.
syndrome angelman	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
angelman's syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
porokeratosis of mantoux	A rare form of porokeratosis occurring mainly in adolescence and characterized by small pruritic or painful keratotic papules that first appear on the palms and soles, and may gradually become generalized. The prevalence is unknown but it is one of the rarest forms of porokeratosis. The disease is more frequently seen in males. The exact etiology is unknown. A possible locus for PPPD has been found on chromosome 12q24.1-24.2. Usually follows a dominant (autosomal or X-linked) pattern of inheritance.
sotos sequence	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
sotos syndrome	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
saethre chotzen syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
saethre-chotzen syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
potter's syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potter; syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potter syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potters syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
oligohydramnios sequence	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
myopathy; rods	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
nemaline body disease	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
plexiform neuromas	A type of neurofibroma manifesting as a diffuse overgrowth of subcutaneous tissue, usually involving the face, scalp, neck, and chest but occasionally occurring in the abdomen or pelvis. The tumors tend to progress, and may extend along nerve roots to eventually involve the spinal roots and spinal cord. This process is almost always a manifestation of NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1016; J Pediatr 1997 Nov;131(5):678-82)
congenital vascular hamartoma	A dull red, firm, dome-shaped hemangioma, sharply demarcated from surrounding skin, usually located on the head and neck, which grows rapidly and generally undergoes regression and involution without scarring. It is caused by proliferation of immature capillary vessels in active stroma, and is usually present at birth or occurs within the first two or three months of life. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital deformity of limb	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
congen limb anomaly nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
acs v	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
velocardiofacial syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
xxx syndrome	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
moebius congenital oculofacial paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
moebius sequence	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
glossopalatine ankylosis syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
mobius syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
moebius syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
abnormal palmar creases	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
palmar creases; abnormal	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
vascular ring - disorder	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring of aorta	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring anomaly	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
brachycephaly	Hlava s nápadně krátkým předozadním průměrem způsobená kraniosynostózou koronárního švu s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Jeho varianty jsou 1. brachycephalus simplex - zkrácení hlavně spodiny lební 2. pachycefalus - hlava vpředu krátká, vzadu široká 3. oxycefalus - hlava krátká, vpředu široká, do výšky zašpičatělá - věžovitá hlava 4. platycefalus - plochá hlava 5. trochocefalus - abnormálně kulatá hlava. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
short broad skull	Hlava s nápadně krátkým předozadním průměrem způsobená kraniosynostózou koronárního švu s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Jeho varianty jsou 1. brachycephalus simplex - zkrácení hlavně spodiny lební 2. pachycefalus - hlava vpředu krátká, vzadu široká 3. oxycefalus - hlava krátká, vpředu široká, do výšky zašpičatělá - věžovitá hlava 4. platycefalus - plochá hlava 5. trochocefalus - abnormálně kulatá hlava. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
brachydactylies	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
congenital nevus flammeus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
port-wine birthmark	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
diaphragm unilateral ageneses	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
harlequin fetus	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
ogival palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
chorioretinal coloboma	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
tricuspid valve atresia	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
cutis marmorata	A reticular discoloration of the skin with cyanotic (reddish-blue appearing) areas surrounding pale central areas due to dilation of capillary blood vessels and stagnation of blood within the vessels. Cutis marmorata generally occurs on the legs, arms and trunk and is often more severe in cold weather. [HPO:sdoelken]
keratosis pilaris atrophicans facies	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
keratosis pilaris atrophicans	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
becker's nevus	A benign lesion that is sometimes congenital and consists of an overgrowth of the epidermis and the presence of melanin-containing cells. It is found mostly in males and typically develops during childhood or adolescence, becoming darker and more hairy after puberty.
microcephalic primordial dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
seckel-type dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
bird-headed dwarf of seckel	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
seckel syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
nanocephalic dwarf	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
seckels syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
distal arthrogryposis	An inherited primary limb malformation disorder characterized by congenital contractures of two or more different body areas and without primary neurologic and/or muscle disease that affects limb function. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8923935]
lissencephaly syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
warburg syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
pagon syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
walker-warburg congenital muscular dystrophy	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
hard e syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
schinzel-gideon syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutation(s) in the SETBP1 gene, encoding SET-binding protein. It is characterized by unique facial features, including midface hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
fraser syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive congenital malformation syndrome characterized by cryptophthalmos, SYNDACTYLY and UROGENITAL ABNORMALITIES. Other anomalies of bone, ear, lung, and nose are common. Mutations on FRAS1 and FREM2 are associated with the syndrome.
oculoauricular vertebral dysplasia	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
oral mandibular auricular syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
web; popliteal syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
pterygium universale	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
heart-hand syndrome	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
phakomatosis	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
neurocutaneous syndrome	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
angiokeratoma in tuberous sclerosis	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
peutz-jeghers polyps of small bowel	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
mismatch repair deficiency	An autosomal dominant hereditary neoplastic syndrome caused by mutations in the PMS2, MLH1, MSH2, or APC genes. There are two types described, type 1, characterized by the presence of glioblastoma and often associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal carcinoma, and type 2, characterized by the presence of medulloblastoma and familiar adenomatous polyposis.
bannayan syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
axenfeldt-rieger syndrome	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
pallister killian syndrome	A very rare chromosomal disorder caused by tetrasomy of chromosome 12p. It is characterized by severe mental retardation, prominent forehead, sparse temporofrontal hair, hypertelorism, short nose, and streaks of hypopigmented skin.
cat eye syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
xxxx syndrome	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
four x syndrome	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
xxxxx syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
xxxy syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has 2 extra X chromosomes.
triangular skull shape	Wedge-shaped, or triangular head, with the apex of the triangle at the midline of the forehead and the base of the triangle at the occiput. [PMID:19125436]
triangular skull	Wedge-shaped, or triangular head, with the apex of the triangle at the midline of the forehead and the base of the triangle at the occiput. [PMID:19125436]
lückenschadel -retired-	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
lückenschadel	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
limb duplication	Congenital duplication of all or part of a limb. []
phocomelia nos of lower limb	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
phocomelia of lower limb	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
pes equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
congenital talipes calcaneovarus	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
tarsal coalitions	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
synostosis involving tarsal bones	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
atresia of trachea	A congenital absence or considerable underdevelopment of the trachea such that communication between the larynx proximally and the alveoli of the lungs distally is lacking. [HPO:probinson, PMID:9776081]
congenital lobar emphysema	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
double outlet left ventricle	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of tricuspid valve	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
hypoplastic tricuspid valve	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
aortic valve; atresia	A rare congenital heart defect characterized by the complete failure of the aortic valve to open. It is manifested during infancy with cyanosis, dyspnea, and rapidly progressing heart failure.
hypoplastic right heart	Underdevelopment of the right-sided structures of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; uhl	Uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium, normal tricuspid valve, and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium. [PMID:10859296, PMID:16322929]
isolated endocardial fibroelastosis	Endocardial fibroelastosis unassociated with other cardiac abnormalities.
postductal aortic coarctation	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized distal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the postductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
aortic arch hypoplasia	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
congenital hypoplasia aortic arch	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
kommerell's diverticulum	A patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring. [DDD:dbrown]
coronary fistula	A congenital malformation with abnormal connection between one of the coronary arteries and a heart chamber or another blood vessel. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:20513726]
agenesis of pulmonary artery	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
absence of the pulmonary artery	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
pulmonary artery--atresia	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery atresia	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of pulmonary artery	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital atresia of pulmonary artery	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of pulmonary artery	Underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of pulmonary artery	Underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the pulmonary veins	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
anomaly nos of pulmonary veins	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
anomalous pulmonary vein	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
congenital anomaly of pulmonary veins	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
plsvc	A rare congenital vascular anomaly that results when the left superior cardinal vein caudal to the innominate vein fails to regress. [PMID:18847480]
netherton syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
birthmarks	<p>Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html">Pigmented</a> birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/moles.html">Moles</a> can be birthmarks.</p> <p>No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery. </p> <p>Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider.</p>
fibrous hamartoma	A rare, benign soft tissue tumor that typically occurs within the first two years of life. [HPO:sdoelken]
nevus anemicus	A congenital skin lesion characterized by irregular hypopigmented macules that coalesce to form plaques and occur particularly on the chest. It is generally present at birth or develops in the first days of life. It is more common in females. Diagnosis is confirmed by applying gentle friction to the lesion and the surrounding skin and checking that the erythema produced in the healthy skin does not appear in the hypopigmented lesion. This pale macule becomes more conspicuous when the lesion and its surroundings are rubbed. The margin of the naevus is ill-defined and consists of an archipelago of small anaemic spots. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
nevus comedonicus	A type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged, dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones. [PMID:23888253]
hypoplasia; mammary	A disorder characterized by underdevelopment of the breast.
congenital digestive system anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
mulberry molars	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
moon's molar teeth	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
large teeth	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
megalodontia	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
hypoplasia; cementum	The decrease or absence of cementum. The cementum anchors the periodontal ligament attachment fiber between the tooth root and the alveolar bone. Its absence leads to early loss of teeth. [PMID:31468724]
early eruption of teeth	Premature tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD earlier than the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
open-bite unspecified	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
open bite	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
glossoschisis	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
bilobed tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
esophagus; defect	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformations of esophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
unspecified anomalies of esophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
esophagus; deformity	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
h-type congenital tracheesophageal fistula	Congenital tracheoesophageal fistula without esophageal atresia.
duplication of intestine	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the intestine. The duplicated segment is cystic.
intestinal duplication	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the intestine. The duplicated segment is cystic.
congenital duplication of intestine	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the intestine. The duplicated segment is cystic.
congenital atresia of small intestine	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
small intestine atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
atresia of small intestine	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
jejunal atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the jejunum.
megaduodenum	Dilation and elongation of the duodenum with hypertrophy of all layers of the duodenum. []
persistent cloaca	A congenital abnormality in which the rectum, vagina, and urethra fuse and form a common channel.
ectopic anus	Abnormal displacement or malposition of the anus. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder anomalies	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder anomaly congenital	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder; anomaly	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
pancreatic hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
pancreas divisum	A congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development. Three variants have been described: type 1 or classical divisum in which there is total failure of fusion; type 2 in which dorsal drainage is dominant in the absence of the duct of Wirsung; and type 3 or incomplete divisum where a small communicating branch is present. [PMID:24265565]
ectopic thyroids	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
ectopic thyroid gland	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
persistent thyroglossal duct	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
congenital abnormality of kidney	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly;kidney	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
renal hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
kidney fusions	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
megacalycosis	Isolated enlargement of renal calyces without obstruction.
ureteral atresia	A developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen (tube) of the ureter. [HPO:probinson]
congenital atresia of ureter	A developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen (tube) of the ureter. [HPO:probinson]
urethral valve formation	The presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra. [HPO:probinson]
persistent umbilical sinus	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
patent urachal duct	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
true hermaphroditisms	A rare condition characterized by the unequivocal presence of both testicular and ovarian tissues in an individual. It is usually manifested with ambiguous external genitalia.
congenital absence of ovary	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
streak ovary	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
uterine abnormalities	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
bicornuate uterus	The presence of a bicornuate uterus. [HPO:probinson]
rudimentary uterus	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterine hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
xy gonadal agenesis syndrome	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
monorchidism	Having only one testis in the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
polyorchism	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
supernumerary testes	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
vas deferens; atresia	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
brain malformations	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
exencephaly	A congenital abnormality characterized by the extrusion of the brain outside of the skull.
congenital malformation brain exencephaly	A congenital abnormality characterized by the extrusion of the brain outside of the skull.
lissencephaly	A smooth brain malformation of the CEREBRAL CORTEX resulting from the abnormal location of developing neurons during corticogenesis. It is characterized by an absence of normal convoluted indentations on the surface of the brain (agyria), or fewer and shallower indentations (pachygryia). There is a reduced number of cortical layers, typically 4 instead of 6, resulting in a thickened cortex, and reduced cerebral white matter that is a reversal of the normal ratio of cerebral white matter to cortex.
lissencephalies	A smooth brain malformation of the CEREBRAL CORTEX resulting from the abnormal location of developing neurons during corticogenesis. It is characterized by an absence of normal convoluted indentations on the surface of the brain (agyria), or fewer and shallower indentations (pachygryia). There is a reduced number of cortical layers, typically 4 instead of 6, resulting in a thickened cortex, and reduced cerebral white matter that is a reversal of the normal ratio of cerebral white matter to cortex.
colloid cyst third ventricle	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
macrogyria	Pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1,5-3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm (radiological definition). See also neuropathological definitions for 2-, 3-, and 4-layered lissencephaly. [COST:neuromig, HPO:probinson, PMID:22427329]
schizencephaly	A rare developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of clefs in the cerebral hemispheres. The abnormality may involve one or both cerebral hemispheres. Signs and symptoms include developmental delays, mental retardation, paralysis, presence of a small head, and seizures.
neuroglial heterotopia	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
nasal glioma	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
nasal glial heterotopia	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
neuronal heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
cortical heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
gray matter heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
myeloschisis	The severe form of a neural tube defect where the open neural tube appears as a flattened, plate-like mass of nervous tissue with no overlying membrane. [PMID:20885122, UToronto:chum]
rachischisis	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
norrie syndrome	A rare, X-linked recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the NPD gene. It is characterized by developmental retinal abnormalities that result in blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. Additional manifestations include progressive hearing loss and developmental motor skills delays.
axenfeld's anomaly	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; axenfeld	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld anomaly	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld-rieger anomalies	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld; degeneration	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
persistent hyperplasia of primary vitreous	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
persistent hyaloid vasculature	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
developmental anomaly of eyelid	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital anomalies of eyelid	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital eyelid deformity nos	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital deformities of eyelids	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital eyelid malformation	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital ptosis	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital eyelid ptosis	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital drooping upper eyelid	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
ablepharon	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
accessory; eyelid	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
extra eyelid	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
congenital ear anomaly nos	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
ear -congenital anomaly	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
ear malformation	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
preauricular tags	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
preauricular pit	Small indentation anterior to the insertion of the ear. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:19152421]
potter; facies	A facial appearance characteristic of a fetus or neonate due to oligohydramnios experienced in the womb, comprising ocular hypertelorism, low-set ears, receding chin, and flattening of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
potter's facies	A facial appearance characteristic of a fetus or neonate due to oligohydramnios experienced in the womb, comprising ocular hypertelorism, low-set ears, receding chin, and flattening of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
branchial cleft sinus	A congenital branchial sinus is a remnant of the embryonic branchial arches and their intervening clefts and pouches that has failed to regress completely. Sinuses typically have their external orifice inferior to the ramus of the mandible. They may traverse the parotid gland, and run in close vicinity to the facial nerve in the external auditory canal. [HPO:sdoelken]
spleniculus	Homogeneous organ, each instance of which is a connected or detached part or enclave of some spleen.
spleen; aberrant	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
ectopia of the spleen	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
situs inversus thoracis	A congenital condition in which there is complete right-to-left reversal of the position of the thoracic organs.
cyclocephaly	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
amyelencephaly	Congenital absence of the spinal cord and brain
cebocephaly	Two orbital cavities and two eyes present, the region between being narrowed. Expected skeletal alterations include fused frontonasal and/or maxillary bones and incisors. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy	En autosomalt dominant, ärftlig sjukdom som debuterar sent i livet och vars kännetecken är sväljningssvårigheter och tilltagande ögonlocksnedfall. Mutationer i genen för poly(A)-bindande protein II har satts i samband med okulofaryngeal muskeldystrofi.
lingual goiter	Sjuklig förstoring av lingual tyreoidea, ektopisk sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Tillståndet kan ge upphov till luftvägshinder, sväljningssvårigheter eller hypertyreossymtom.
schwachmann diamond syndrome	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
congenital lipomatosis pancreas	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
cutis aplasia	Localized or widespread congenital absence of skin. The lesions most frequently occur in the scalp, are well demarcated, may be superficial or deep, and are not associated with inflammation.
caudal dysplasia sequence	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by partial or complete absence of the lower portion of the spine.
cryptophthalmia	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
cryptophthalmos	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
triploidy	A very rare congenital syndrome characterized by the presence of three haploid sets of chromosomes. The surviving infants have multiple severe birth defects.
optic nerve hypoplasia	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
hypoplastic optic nerves	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
hypoplasia of the optic nerve	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
septo-optic; dysplasia	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
de morsier syndrome	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy	This corneal dystrophy affects the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea and is characterized by polymorphous plaques of calcium deposits in the deep stromal layers of the cornea, and occasionally by vesicular lesions of the endothelium and edema of the deep corneal stroma. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformation of lens	Any anatomic abnormality or physiologic dysfunction of the lens of the eye that is present at the time of birth.
congenital hearing loss	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
bifid epiglottis	A midline anterior-posterior cleft of the epiglottis that involves at least two-thirds of the epiglottic leaf. It is a useful feature for clinical diagnosis because it appears to be very rare in syndromes other than Pallister-Hall-Syndrome and is also rare as an isolated malformation. [HPO:curators]
congenital third degree block	A disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a complete atrioventricular block that manifests during fetal life or soon after birth. It may be isolated or associated with other congenital heart defects. Isolated congenital complete atrioventricular block may be associated with maternal connective tissue disorders.
lateral developmental cyst of jaw	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral periodontal cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
periodontal lateral cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
cyst; lateral periodontal	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral periodontal cyst of jaw	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
cleft of scrotum	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
congenital hypothyroidism with ectopic thyroid	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth that is associated with ectopic thyroid tissue located in the neck region.
x linked ocular albinism	An X-linked inherited disorder caused by mutations in the GPR143 gene. It is characterized by reduced visual acuity and reduced stereoscopic vision. Other abnormalities include nystagmus, strabismus, and photophobia.
benign congenital hypotonia	Mild hypotonia that usually appears early in infancy and has a favorable outcome. It is not a manifestation of another disorder that may cause hypotonia (e.g., cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy).
sacral agenesis	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; eyelid	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
eyelid; hypoplasia	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
congenital epiblepharon	Redundant eyelid skin pressing the eyelashes against the cornea and/or conjunctiva. [PMID:19125427]
imperforate nasolacrimal ducts	A developmental disorder of the lacrimal drainage system that most often affects the lacrimal ostium and resulting in non-opening of the nasolacrimal duct. It usually results from a non-canalization of the nasolacrimal duct. [HPO:probinson]
plana; cornea	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
anterior megalophthalmos	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
iris hypoplasia	Congenital underdevelopment of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
polycoria	Multiple pupils. [DDD:ncarter]
multiple pupils	Multiple pupils. [DDD:ncarter]
falciform retinal fold	An area of the retina that is buckled so that a sector-shaped sheet of retina lies in front of the normal retina. This feature is of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
peters anomaly	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
triloculare; cor	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only three chambers.
correct transpos grt ves	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
corrected transposition of great vessels	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
absent left sided atrioventricular connection	A defect where there is no connection between the left atrium and left ventricle. [PMID:7104116]
absent right superior vena cava	Absence of the right superior vena cava (RSVC). An absent RSVC is always associated with a persistent left superior vena cava (PLSVC). During normal fetal development, the left-sided anterior venous cardinal system regresses, leaving the coronary sinus (CS) and the ligament of Marshall. Failure of the closure of the left anterior cardinal vein results in PLSVC. In general, PLSVC is associated with the right superior vena cava (RSVC) and drains into the RA via a dilated CS. When developmental arrest occurs at an earlier stage, the CS is absent and the PLSVC drains into the left atrium. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:17578953, PMID:19808620, PMID:20532458]
bilateral svc	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
bilateral superior vena cava	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
bilateral superior caval veins	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
patent ductus venosus	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
congenital portosystemic venous shunt	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
cor triatriatum dexter	A congenital anomaly with partitioning of the right atrium to form a triatrial heart caused by persistence of the right valve of the sinus venosus. Typically, the right atrial partition is due to exaggerated fetal eustachian and thebesian valves, which together form an incomplete septum across the lower part of the atrium. This septum may range from a reticulum to a substantial sheet of tissue. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:17948095]
septum primum defect	An ostium primum atrial septal defect is located in the most anterior and inferior aspect of the atrial septum. The ostium primum refers to an anterior and inferior opening (ostium) within the septum primum, which divides the rudimentary atrium during fetal development. The ostium primum is normally sealed by fusion of the superior and inferior endocardial cushions around 5 weeks' gestation. Ostium primum defects result from a failure of the fusion of the embryologic endocardial cushion and septum primum. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
absent tricuspid leaflet	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
unguarded tricuspid valve orifice	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
mitral atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
abnormal right ventricle morphology	An abnormality of the right ventricle of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
congenital left ventricular anomaly	Any structural abnormality of the left ventricle of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
left ventricular outflow tract anomaly	An abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
left ventricular outflow tract obstruction	Obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract. It is caused by aortic valve, supravalvar, or subvalvar defects.
right heart syndrome; hypoplasia	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
bicuspid pulmonary valve	The presence of a bicuspid pulmonary valve. [HPO:probinson]
unicuspid aortic valve	The presence of an aortic valve with one instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [HPO:probinson, PMID:18480095, PMID:20329493]
quadricuspid aortic valve	The presence of an aortic valve with four instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [PMID:27390747]
pulmonary trunk hypoplasia	Underdeveloped pulmonary arteries.
aortic right ventricular tunnel	The presence of an extracardiac channel that connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the right ventricle. [PMID:27525240]
aortic-right ventricular tunnels	The presence of an extracardiac channel that connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the right ventricle. [PMID:27525240]
cervical aortic arch	The aortic arch extends into the soft tissues of the neck before turning down into to become the descending aorta. [DDD:dbrown]
kinking of descending aorta	Pseudocoarctation is a congenital anomaly of kinking, or buckling, of the aorta without a pressure gradient across the lesion. It is characterized by elongation and kinking of the aorta at the level of the ligamentum arteriosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17593995, PMID:18651460]
type a interrupted aortic arch	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment at the level of the isthmus. [DDD:dbrown]
interrupted aortic arch type a	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment at the level of the isthmus. [DDD:dbrown]
abnormal coronary artery course	An abnormal path of a coronary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
anomalous coronary artery course	An abnormal path of a coronary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
small intestinal dysmotility	Abnormal small intestinal contractions, such as spasms and intestinal paralysis related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of large intestine	A malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the large intestine.
low anorectal malformation	Congenital malformations in the anorectal region that include the perineal fistula, anteriorly placed anus, and anorecto-vestibular fistula.
short segment hirschsprung disease	The most common form of Hirschsprung Disease, this is characterized by a lack of nerve cells in the sigmoid colon and rectum. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
total intestinal aganglionosis	A complete lack of ganglia in the intestine. This is an extremely severe form of Hirschsprung Disease.
abnormal liver lobulation	Formation of abnormal lobules (small masses of tissue) in the liver. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of vagina	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
diphallia	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
congenital phimosis	The male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital fistula of urachus	Persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus. [Eurenomics:ewuehl]
underdeveloped lower limb bones	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
underdeveloped vertebrae	Small, underdeveloped vertebral bodies. [HPO:probinson]
osteopetrosis with renal tubular acidosis	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutation in the CA2 gene. It is characterized by osteopetrosis, renal tubular acidosis, and cerebral calcifications. It results in growth failure, mental retardation, and fractures.
marble brain disease	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutation in the CA2 gene. It is characterized by osteopetrosis, renal tubular acidosis, and cerebral calcifications. It results in growth failure, mental retardation, and fractures.
congenital livedo reticularis	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome	A hemangioma present at birth. It is characterized by the presence of rubbery skin lesions.
arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia	A congenital cardiomyopathy that is characterized by infiltration of adipose and fibrous tissue into the RIGHT VENTRICLE wall and loss of myocardial cells. Primary injuries usually are at the free wall of right ventricular and right atria resulting in ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias.
epulides congen	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congen epulides	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congen epulis	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
cleft lip bilateral	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on the left and right sides. [HPO:probinson]
mosaicism	The occurrence of 2 or more cell lines with different genetic or chromosomal make-up, within a single individual or tissue.
roberts-sc phocomelia syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
single atrium	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
supernumerary cusp	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
talon cusps	Talon cusp is an accessory cusp located near the cingulum (the portion of the lingual or palatal aspect of the tooth that forms a convex protuberance at the cervical third of the anatomic crown). [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
premature loss of primary teeth	Loss of the primary (also known as deciduous) teeth before the usual age. [HPO:sdoelken]
witkop syndrome	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It is associated with mutations in the MSX-1 gene on chromosome 4 which alter ectodermal morphogenesis. Characteristic clinical signs include absent or poorly-formed dentition and brittle, spoon-shaped finger and toenails. Clinical course features an increased incidence of dental caries but is essentially benign.
palmoplantar keratoderma with leukoplakia	A hereditary syndrome this is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma accompanied by leukoplakia and may be associated with a high lifetime risk of esophageal cancer, as seen in Howel-Evans Syndrome.
symmetric dyschromatosis of the extremities	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by heterozygous mutation in the DSRAD gene. Most cases have been reported from countries in East Asia. It is characterized by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules on the dorsal aspect of the extremities and face.
eccrine angiomatous hamartoma	A rare, congenital skin lesion consisting of a proliferation of eccrine glands with a vascular stroma. It presents as a flesh-colored, hyperhidrotic, painful papule or plaque appearing at birth or during childhood.
moniliform hamartoma	A type of pilosebaceous hamartoma characterized by the development of a linear, flesh colored, fine papular eruption on the head, neck and upper chest after puberty.
x-linked centronuclear myopathy	An X-linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. Primarily it affects males. Female carriers are usually asymptomatic. It is characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and hypotonia. The muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe. Newborns with severe X-linked centronuclear myopathy develop respiratory distress which may lead to respiratory failure requiring constant ventilator assistance. Patients with mild X-linked centronuclear myopathy usually require ventilator support during the newborn period only.
decreased distance between eye sockets	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
decreased orbital separation	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
lumbar myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
thoracic myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the thoracic region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
cervical myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the cervical region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
lipomeningocele	A form of closed neural tube defect in which the spinal tissue lies within the spinal cord having a junction between the spinal cord and the lipoma. Intact skin covers the defect. Neurologic findings first appear during the second year of life. [UToronto:chum]
aprosencephaly	A very rare congenital brain defect in which the cerebral cortex, striatum, globus pallidus, thalamus, hypothalamus, and eyes are absent or rudimentary.
olfactory aplasia	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
atrophy of corpus callosum	The presence of atrophy (wasting) of the corpus callosum. [HPO:sdoelken]
lissencephaly type ii	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
congenital malformation brain colpocephaly	Colpocephaly is an anatomic finding in the brain manifested by occipital horns that are disproportionately enlarged in comparison with other parts of the lateral ventricles. [PMID:4058748]
colpocephaly	Colpocephaly is an anatomic finding in the brain manifested by occipital horns that are disproportionately enlarged in comparison with other parts of the lateral ventricles. [PMID:4058748]
joubert syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
gillespie syndrome	A rare congenital neurological disorder with characteristics of the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non-progressive cerebellar ataxia and intellectual disability. Aniridia is visible at birth as fixed dilated pupils. Non-progressive cerebellar ataxia is associated with delayed developmental milestones and hypotonia, gait and balance disorders with incoordination, intention tremor and scanning speech. Sporadic and familial cases have been observed.
sacral dysgenesis	A developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum, which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae S1-S5, fail to form or fail to form normally. []
synophris	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
unibrow	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
monobrow	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
missing eyebrows	Absence of the eyebrow. [HPO:probinson]
double ductus arteriosus	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
lobulate tongue	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
lingual lobules	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
tongue hamartoma	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
ectopic liver	Ectopic liver is a rare developmental anomaly in which liver tissue is situated outside the liver. Thus, ectopic liver refers to autonomous islands of normal liver parenchyma located outside the liver. The term ectopic liver is also used, to include liver appendices attached to the native liver by a thin stalk although being fully separated from the latter. [HPO:probinson, PMID:11988792, PMID:637502]
cryptorchism; bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral cryptorchidism	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral; cryptorchism	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral renal dysplasia	A unilateral form of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral renal dysgenesis	A finding of congenital malformations in both kidneys characterized by the presence of cysts of various sizes, primitive ducts, islands of metaplastic cartilage and undifferentiated mesenchyme, and the absence of cortico-medullary demarcation.
urachal diverticulum	A condition in which the urachus fails to close proximal to the bladder, resulting in a non-detrusor, blind-ending pouch at the dome of the bladder.
humeroulnar synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the ulna and the humerus. [HPO:curators]
humeral ulnar synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the ulna and the humerus. [HPO:curators]
asymmetric upper limb shortening	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of an arm. [HPO:probinson]
thumb hypoplasia	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplasia thumbs	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
congenital malformation of thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
short thumbs	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplastic thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
thumb hypoplastic	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hemiatrophy of lower limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
asymmetric lower limb shortening	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
lower extremity deformities congen	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
anomaly; lower limb	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
lower limb anomaly nos	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
split foot	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
triphalangeal great toe	A hallux (big toe) with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. [PMID:19760621, PMID:22486404]
triphalangeal hallux	A hallux (big toe) with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. [PMID:19760621, PMID:22486404]
alveolar cleft	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft of soft palate	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
submucous cleft of hard palate	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
congenital spondylolysis of lumbosacral region	A defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch of a lumbar or sacral vertebra that is present at the time of birth.
failure of vertebral segmentation	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
bullous type ichthyosis	An autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis characterized by generalized reddening of the skin (ERYTHEMA) and widespread blistering. The disease shows similar, but somewhat milder, clinical and histopathological findings to those in HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC and is associated with the gene that encodes KERATIN-2A.
dermatoglyphic anomaly	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
dermatoglyphic anomalies nos	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
dermatoglyphic anomalies	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
nipple hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the nipple. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic nipples	Underdevelopment of the nipple. [HPO:probinson]
diffuse neurofibroma	A rare neurofibroma with an infiltrative growth pattern. It involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue and grows in a plaque-like fashion. Malignant transformation is rare.
shagreen patch	A plaque representing a connective-tissue nevus. Connective tissue naevi are uncommon skin lesions that occur when the deeper layers of the skin do not develop correctly or the components of these layers occur in the wrong proportion. Shagreen patches are oval-shaped and nevoid, skin-colored or occasionally pigmented, smooth or crinkled, The word shagreen refers to a type of roughened untanned leather. [HPO:curators, PMID:10695583]
foetal aminopterin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
females xy	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XY and who is phenotypically female.
penoscrotal hypospadias	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
perineal hypospadias	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8097257]
linear eccrine nevi with comedones	A rare, congenital disorder of the eccrine sweat ducts that presents as grouped keratotic papules and plaques with a linear distribution and/or multiple punctate pits filled with tiny keratotic plugs resembling comedones. The lesion are usually located on the acral portion of a limb.
ectopic ureterocele	A ureterocele in which some portion of the ureterocele is situated permanently at the bladder neck or in the urethra. The orifice may be situated in the bladder, at the bladder neck, or in the urethra. (Adapted from Glassberg KI, Braren V, Duckett JW, Jacobs EC, King LR, Lebowitz RL et al. Suggested terminology for duplex systems, ectopic ureters and ureteroceles. J Urol 1984; 132(6):1153-1154.)
congenital malformations of great arteries	Defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries. []
nervous system anomalies	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital lesion of nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
anomaly; nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congen anomalies nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
arteriovenous malformation of liver	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the liver.
undescended and retractile testicle	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
retinal arteriovenous malformation	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
coloboma of lid	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
ectopic cilia of eyelid	An eyelash that emerges from the underside (conjunctiva) of the upper or lower eyelid. [GOC:MG, http://www.eyecareforanimals.com/animal-eye-conditions/general/251-distichiasis-trichiasis-ectopic-cilia.html]
blue sclerae	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
blue sclera	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of the kidney	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
renal agenesis	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
disproportion; fibre-type	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
nodose hairs	Rare autosomal dominant disorder of the hair shaft. The clinical features of the disease include HYPOTRICHOSIS, dry, and/or brittle hair, with varying degrees of ALOPECIA. Mutations in the hair-specific keratin genes KRTHB1, KRTHB3, or KRTHB6 are associated with monilethrix. Autosomal recessive monilethrix with limited HYPOTRICHOSIS are also known. Mutations in Dsg4, Liph, and P2ry5 protein genes are associated with the recessive form of monilethrix.
beaded hair	Rare autosomal dominant disorder of the hair shaft. The clinical features of the disease include HYPOTRICHOSIS, dry, and/or brittle hair, with varying degrees of ALOPECIA. Mutations in the hair-specific keratin genes KRTHB1, KRTHB3, or KRTHB6 are associated with monilethrix. Autosomal recessive monilethrix with limited HYPOTRICHOSIS are also known. Mutations in Dsg4, Liph, and P2ry5 protein genes are associated with the recessive form of monilethrix.
posterior embryotoxon	A posterior embryotoxon is the presence of a prominent and anteriorly displaced line of Schwalbe. [HPO:probinson]
preauricular fistulas	A pit or dimple in front of the ear of a newborn is a common finding; rarely, such a dimple may get infected, which will be manifested with redness and swelling and will require medical attention.
imperforate rectum	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
rectal atresia	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
watson syndrome	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
watson's syndrome	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
duodenal diaphragm	Partial or complete obstruction of the duodenal lumen due to the presence of a membranous web.
asplenia	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
incomplete mineralization of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
incomplete ossification of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
camptodactylia	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
short supernumerary rib	An extra rib at the cervicothoracic border with the distal extremity rounded, length less than one third of the length of the ossified portion of the first thoracic rib and no costal cartilage distal. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
congenital anomaly of ischium	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the ischium	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
incomplete ossification of pubis	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the pubic bone. []
obsolete lung segmentation defects	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
cleft mandible	Midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues. [PMID:19125436]
mandibular cleft	Midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues. [PMID:19125436]
anogenital distance increased	An indication that the anogenital distance is greater than the norm.
congenital small ovary	Developmental hypoplasia of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
rachischisis totalis	Fissure of the entire spinal column. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
arm; anomaly	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
anomaly; upper limb	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
chiari malformation type i	Arnold-Chiari type I malformation refers to a relatively mild degree of herniation of the posteroinferior region of the cerebellum (the cerebellar tonsils) into the cervical canal with little or no displacement of the fourth ventricle. [HPO:curators]
distal muscular dystrophy	En heterogen grupp genetiska sjukdomar som kännetecknas av fortskridande muskelatrofi och muskelsvaghet, med början i händerna, benen eller fötterna. De flesta är autosomalt dominanta former som debuterar vid vuxen ålder. Andra är autosomalt recessiva.
central core disease	Dědičný vrozený myopatický stav projevující se slabostí a hypotonií u kojenců a opožděný motorický vývoj. Svalová biopsie ukazuje kondenzaci myofibril a myofibrilárního materiálu ve střední části každého svalového vlákna.
congenital omphalocele	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
omphalocele	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
peters-plus syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
ohdo blepharophimosis syndrome	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
ohdo syndrome	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
blepharophimosis syndrome ohdo type	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
becker's disease	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
beckers dystrophy	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
cerebral arteriovenous malformation	An anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the brain. []
denys drash syndrome	Ett sällsynt syndrom, kännetecknat av urogenitala missbildningar, pseudohermafroditism och Wilms tumör (nefroblastom).
duplication; spinal cord	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
duplication of spinal cord	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
diplomyelia	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
spinal cord; duplication	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
anorchidism	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
anorchism	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of larynx	A congenital deformity in which there is no laryngeal structure.
absence; trachea	Congenital absence of the trachea.
linear eccrine poroma	A rare, benign eccrine neoplasm usually arising on acral areas as a solitary papular or nodular lesion. Multiple lesions are referred as syringofibroadenomatosis. It is characterized by the presence of epithelial cuboidal cells forming anastomosing cords in a fibrovascular stroma.
type ii acrocephalopolysyndactyly	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
acrocephalopolysyndactyly type ii	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
great l transposition vessels	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
levotransposition of the great arteries	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
d-transposition of the great vessels	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
dextro-transposition of the great arteries	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
pseudohypoplasia of the optic nerve	Congenital small optic disc with normal visual function
micropapilla	Congenital small optic disc with normal visual function
residual cyst	Cysta, která zůstává v čelisti poté, co extrahujeme zub, na jehož kořeni se cysta vyvinula. Cysta se může zvětšovat bez přítomnosti zubu. Je to zvláštní forma radikulární cysty.
residual; cyst	Cysta, která zůstává v čelisti poté, co extrahujeme zub, na jehož kořeni se cysta vyvinula. Cysta se může zvětšovat bez přítomnosti zubu. Je to zvláštní forma radikulární cysty.
optic disc hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of the optic disc	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic optic discs	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic optic disc	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of optic disc	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
transitional vertebra	Una anomalía congénita de una vértebra en la cual presenta características de una estructura o región adyacente.
talipes	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital euryblepharon	Euryblepharon is a congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure. The eyelid is shortened vertically compared with the horizontal dimension, with associated lateral canthal malpositioning and lateral ectropion abnormally wide lid opening. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15249382, PMID:15530943, PMID:24719364]
congenital microcoria	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
compression facies	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
unsymmetrical face	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetry facial	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
facial asymmetry	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetry of face	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetry face	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
infantile malignant osteopetrosis	A rare congenital disorder of bone resorption characterised by generalised skeletal densification. Bone marrow failure, fractures and visual impairment are the classical features of the disease, which begins in early infancy or in fetal life. It results from the failure of osteoclasts to resorb immature bone. This leads to abnormal bone marrow cavity formation and to the clinical signs and symptoms of bone marrow failure. It is accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly due to compensatory extramedullary hematopoiesis. The disease is heterogeneous. Over 50% of cases are due to mutations in the TCIRG1 gene and another 10% are due to mutations in the CLCN7 gene. A small number of patients have been described with mutations in the OSTM1 gene. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
osteopetrosis - precocious type	A rare congenital disorder of bone resorption characterised by generalised skeletal densification. Bone marrow failure, fractures and visual impairment are the classical features of the disease, which begins in early infancy or in fetal life. It results from the failure of osteoclasts to resorb immature bone. This leads to abnormal bone marrow cavity formation and to the clinical signs and symptoms of bone marrow failure. It is accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly due to compensatory extramedullary hematopoiesis. The disease is heterogeneous. Over 50% of cases are due to mutations in the TCIRG1 gene and another 10% are due to mutations in the CLCN7 gene. A small number of patients have been described with mutations in the OSTM1 gene. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
nevus pigmented congenital	A melanocytic nevus that is present at birth. It may present as a small macular, papular, or plaque-like lesion or as a large brown to black hairy skin lesion.
logic syndrome	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
sertoli cell-only syndrome	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
two vessel cords	Congenital abnormality where one, instead of the usual two, UMBILICAL ARTERY connects the fetus to the placenta.
penis hypospadias penile coronal	A mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of epiglottis	Hypoplasia of the epiglottis. [HPO:probinson]
bonnevie ullrich syndrome	Souhrnný název pro vrozené syndromy s pterygium colli, např. Turnerův syndrom, syndrom Noonanové aj. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
berdon syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
mmihs	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
mmih syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
berdon's syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
duane-radial ray syndrome	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
penis hypospadias penile	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
penile hypospadias	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
congenital cleft larynx	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
laryngotracheoesophageal cleft i	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
gms syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome involving goniodysgenesis, intellectual disability and short stature in addition to microcephaly, short nose, small hands and ears, and that has been seen in one family to date. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
nevus pigmented congenital giant	A rare melanocytic lesion occurring at birth, comprising at least 5% of the body surface area. It usually presents as a dark brown to black hairy lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of a compound or intradermal nevus. There is an increased risk of malignant transformation to melanoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and poorly differentiated malignant tumors.
pierquin syndrome	A syndromic disorder with the association between Dandy-Walker malformation and postaxial polydactyly as a major feature. The Dandy-Walker malformation has a variable expression and characteristics of a posterior fossa cyst communicating with the fourth ventricle, the partial or complete absence of the cerebellar vermis, and facultative hydrocephalus. Postaxial polydactyly includes tetramelic postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet with possible enlargement of the fifth metacarpal and metatarsal bones, as well as bifid fifth metacarpals.
anterior segment ocular dysgenesis	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
anterior chamber cleavage defect	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
agyrias	A congenital abnormality of the cerebral hemisphere characterized by lack of gyrations (convolutions) of the cerebral cortex. Agyria is defined as cortical regions lacking gyration with sulci great than 3 cm apart and cerebral cortex thicker than 5 mm. [COST:neuromig]
wolf-hirschhorn syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
wolf syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
cryptotia	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
cryptotia was noted	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
microgyria	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of abnormally small convolutions in the brain. It results in mental retardation.
xeroderma pigmentosum group c	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the XPC gene. This disease is characterized by increased sensitivity to sunlight with the development of carcinomas at an early age and is caused by a defect in nucleotide excision repair.
humeroradial synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
verloes gillerot fryns syndrome	A rare association of malformations described in only three patients including two siblings. The first patient had profound intellectual deficit and clinical features including short stature, coarse face, deep-set eyes, microphthalmia, large ears, gynoid obesity, imperforate anus, sacral spina bifida, pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias, persistence of Mullerian structures, and low gonadotrophin levels. His XY sibling was raised as a girl, was slightly mentally impaired and had microphthalmia and large ears and short stature. The third patient had severe hearing loss, ocular colobomata, hypogonadism of central origin, distinct craniofacial features and skeletal anomalies with cervical spina bifida, hyperkyphosis and thoracic deformity. All patients had a normal 46, XY karyotype. Inheritance could be either autosomal recessive or X-linked.
xxyy syndromes	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has an extra X and Y chromosome.
xxyy syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has an extra X and Y chromosome.
abnormal location of heart atrium	Abnormality of the spatial relationship of the atria to other components of the heart. [DDD:dbrown]
cleft hard and soft palate	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
atrial situs ambiguous	Common atrium without defining morphologic features. [DDD:dbrown]
xyy syndrome	genetic disorder that produces tall and in many cases disturbed behavioral males due to XYY karyotype.
hemifacial microsomia	<p>Hemifacial microsomia</p>
congenital nephrosis	Nephrotic syndrome with onset within the first three months of life. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
d-tga	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the right of the pulmonary artery. This is the most common kind of TGA. [PMID:25082585]
renal dysplasia	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
lumbar meningomyelocele	A congenital abnormality in the lumbar region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
thoracic meningomyelocele	A congenital abnormality in the thoracic region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
hypomineralization of enamel	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
oculoskeletal dysplasia	An inherited syndrome of skeletal and retinal malformations with early blindness as well as cataracts and retinal detachment.
osd - ocular skeletal dysplasia	An inherited syndrome of skeletal and retinal malformations with early blindness as well as cataracts and retinal detachment.
complex craniosynostosis	Nonsyndromic premature fusion of multiple sutures.
braddock jones superneau syndrome	A malformation disorder with characteristics of sagittal craniosynostosis, Dandy-Walker malformation, hydrocephalus, craniofacial dysmorphism (including dolichocephaly, hypertelorism, micrognathia, positional ear deformity) and variable developmental delay. The inheritance pattern appears to be autosomal dominant.
basel vanagaite sirota syndrome	A syndrome of abnormal cortical development with characteristics of severe prenatal polyhydramnios, postnatal microcephaly, lissencephaly, upper limb micromelia, dysmorphic facies (coarse face, hypertrichosis, and short nose with long philtrum), intractable seizures, and early death. Hypoparathyroidism was noted in one case.
myelocystocele	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
allantoic cyst	An umbilical cyst that arises from allantoic tissue that did not regress during gestational development. Most cases involve a patent urachus that allows for communication to the urinary bladder.
total anomalous pulmonary venous drainage	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
camak - cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal syndrome	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
naevus sanguineus	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
angiomatous nevus	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
nevus; vascular	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
enamel agenesis	Una forma de amelogénesis imperfecta caracterizada por formación incompleta del esmalte dental y transmitida como rasgo autosómico dominante o ligado al cromosoma X.
delays developmental	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
aberrant tissue	A mass of histologically normal tissue present in an abnormal location.
grey matter heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
abnorm multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
type i acrocephalosyndactyly	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
congenital absence of brain	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
anencephalus et al nos	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
aniridia	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
anal atresia	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
the anus was imperforate	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
aortic coarctation	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
narrowing of aorta	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
aorta coarctations	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
aortic septal defect	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
arthrogryposis multiplex congenita	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
arthrogryposis	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
congenital multiplex arthrogryposis	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
emg syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
branchioma	A tumor derived from branchial epithelium or branchial rests. (Dorland, 27th ed)
atresia; nares	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
atresia choanal	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choledochocyst	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
congenital choledochal cysts	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
cartilage deformed	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
chromosome deletion	Actual loss of portion of a chromosome.
chromosomal deletion	Actual loss of portion of a chromosome.
cheiloschisis	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleidocranial; dysostosis	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
clubfoot - congenital	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
bile common duct stones	Žlučové kaménky, které se vyskytují v hlavním žlučovodu (ductus choledochus), ale obvykle vznikají ve žlučníku.
abnormality of lung artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery anomalies	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery congenital abnormality	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery abnormality	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
meningocele - cerebral	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
congenital spinal meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
subdivided left atriums	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
craniofacial dysostosis	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
cri-du-chat syndrome	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
crisscross hearts	A developmental malformation of the heart characterized by a twisted but not defective atrioventicular connection. The abnormal rotation of the ventricular mass around its long axis results in the crossing of the inflow streams of the two ventricles. Other features include hypoplasia of the TRICUSPID VALVE and RIGHT VENTRICLE.
undescended testes	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
undescended testicles	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
testicle undescended	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
dandies syndrome walker	A congenital abnormality of the central nervous system marked by failure of the midline structures of the cerebellum to develop, dilation of the fourth ventricle, and upward displacement of the transverse sinuses, tentorium, and torcula. Clinical features include occipital bossing, progressive head enlargement, bulging of anterior fontanelle, papilledema, ataxia, gait disturbances, nystagmus, and intellectual compromise. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, pp294-5)
dentigerous cyst of jaw	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
dentigerous cysts	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
hereditary opalescent dentin	An autosomal dominant disorder of tooth development characterized by opalescent dentin resulting in discoloration of the teeth. The dentin develops poorly with low mineral content while the pulp canal is obliterated.
split spinal cord malformation	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
digeorge sequence	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
down's syndrome	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
duane's syndrome	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
co contractive retraction syndrome	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
dysplastic nevus syndrome	Clinically atypical nevi (usually exceeding 5 mm in diameter and having variable pigmentation and ill defined borders) with an increased risk for development of non-familial cutaneous malignant melanoma. Biopsies show melanocytic dysplasia. Nevi are clinically and histologically identical to the precursor lesions for melanoma in the B-K mole syndrome. (Stedman, 25th ed)
ebstein anomaly	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
ebstein's malformation	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
congenital ectodermal defect	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
eisenmenger	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmenger's defect or complex	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmenger defect	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
endocardial cushion defects	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
lewandowsky lutz dis	An autosomal recessive trait with impaired cell-mediated immunity. About 15 human papillomaviruses are implicated in associated infection, four of which lead to skin neoplasms. The disease begins in childhood with red papules and later spreads over the body as gray or yellow scales.
anaspadias	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is above its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the top or the side of the PENIS, but the urethra can also be open the entire length of the penis. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is often between the CLITORIS and the labia, or in the ABDOMEN.
esophageal atresia	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
deformity; eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital anomaly of the globe	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital anomaly of the eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital deformity of eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
dermal focal hypoplasia	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
eruption cyst of jaw	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
follicular cyst of jaw	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
congenital deformity of foot	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
patent foramen ovale	A condition in which the FORAMEN OVALE in the ATRIAL SEPTUM fails to close shortly after birth. This results in abnormal communications between the two upper chambers of the heart. An isolated patent ovale foramen without other structural heart defects is usually of no hemodynamic significance.
martin bell syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
fragile x syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
pectus recurvatum	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
cobbler's chest -retired-	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
disorders excavatum pectus	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
funnel chest	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
funnel chest; congenital	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
gardner syndrome	A variant of ADENOMATOUS POLYPOSIS COLI caused by mutation in the APC gene (GENES, APC) on CHROMOSOME 5. It is characterized by not only the presence of multiple colonic polyposis but also extracolonic ADENOMATOUS POLYPS in the UPPER GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT; the EYE; the SKIN; the SKULL; and the FACIAL BONES; as well as malignancy in organs other than the GI tract.
naevoid hypertrichosis	A usually benign congenital skin growth that is often pigmented and sometimes develop coarse surface hair. There is a lifetime risk of transformation to malignant melanoma which varies depending on the size of the lesion.
hallermann streiff syndrome	An oculomandibulofacial syndrome principally characterized by dyscephaly (usually brachycephaly), parrot nose, mandibular hypoplasia, proportionate nanism, hypotrichosis, bilateral congenital cataracts, and microphthalmia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
cowden's disease	A hereditary disease characterized by multiple ectodermal, mesodermal, and endodermal nevoid and neoplastic anomalies. Facial trichilemmomas and papillomatous papules of the oral mucosa are the most characteristic lesions. Individuals with this syndrome have a high risk of BREAST CANCER; THYROID CANCER; and ENDOMETRIAL CANCER. This syndrome is associated with mutations in the gene for PTEN PHOSPHATASE.
malformation of heart	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
congenital heart anomaly nos	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
congenital heart disease	imperfections or malformations of the heart, existing at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation.
septal defects	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
cardiac septal defects	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
heart septal defects	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
lindaus dis	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
aganglionosis	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hirschsprung's disease	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hutchinson's teeth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
eyes widely set	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
ichthyosis congenital	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
fish skin	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
incontinentia pigmenti syndrome	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
bloch-siemans syndrome	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
dubin johnson syndrome	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
lange-nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
tylosis; palmaris et plantaris	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
tylosis	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
keratosis follicular	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
klinefelter syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
cervical vertebral fusion syndrome	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
klippel trenaunay weber syndrome	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
white matter necrosis	Degeneration of white matter adjacent to the CEREBRAL VENTRICLES following cerebral hypoxia or BRAIN ISCHEMIA in neonates. The condition primarily affects white matter in the perfusion zone between superficial and deep branches of the MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. Clinical manifestations include VISION DISORDERS; CEREBRAL PALSY; PARAPLEGIA; SEIZURES; and cognitive disorders. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1021; Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1997, Ch4, pp30-1)
situs inversus with levocardia	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
lutembacher syndrome	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
multiple enchondromata with hemangioma	A rare non-inherited disorder primarily affecting the skin and skeletal system. It is classified as a mesodermal dysplasia. Clinical signs appear within the first decade and are characterized by multiple soft tissue hemiangiomas and enchondromas leading to skeletal deformities. Clinical course is progressive with variable development of associated malignancies.
melanosis oculi	A congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate-gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera . The conjunctiva are spared. []
hypoplasia of the tongue	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
little mandible	Abnormally small jaw.
micrognathia was observed	Abnormally small jaw.
microstomias	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
small oral aperture	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
abnormal mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
anomaly; mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital malformation of mouth nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital oral malformation nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
teeth present at birth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
neuroenteric; cyst	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neurenteric cysts	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neurenteric cyst	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
von recklinghausen's disease	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
central neurofibromatoses	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
naevus of ota	A macular lesion on the side of the FACE, involving the CONJUNCTIVA and EYELIDS, as well as the adjacent facial skin, SCLERA; OCULOMOTOR MUSCLES; and PERIOSTEUM. Histological features vary from those of a MONGOLIAN SPOT to those of a BLUE NEVUS.
touraine solente gole syndrome	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
albers schonberg disease	Excessive formation of dense trabecular bone leading to pathological fractures; OSTEITIS; SPLENOMEGALY with infarct; ANEMIA; and extramedullary hemopoiesis (HEMATOPOIESIS, EXTRAMEDULLARY).
oxycephaly	Tvarová varianta brachycefalu, věžovitý tvar hlavy způsobený předčasnou synostózou příčných švů s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Hlava dělá dojem malého objemu, ale s nápadnou výškou, čelo je příkré a vysoké, orbity jsou úzké, vysoké a mělké. Oči prominují. Rozlišují se tři dědičné klinické varianty. 1. o. spojený s kraniostenózou a s atrofií nn. optici 2. o. spojený s familiárním hemolytickým ikterem 3. akrocefalická syndaktylie (Apertův syndrom).(cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
fimbrial cyst	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
newborn persistent pulmonary hypertension	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
persistent fetal circulation syndrome	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
hamartomatous intestinal polyposes	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
peutz jeghers syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
basilar impression	A developmental deformity of the occipital bone and upper end of the cervical spine, in which the latter appears to have pushed the floor of the occipital bone upward. (Dorland, 27th ed)
rothmund	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
polyploidy syndrome	The chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of CHROMOSOMES; includes triploidy (symbol: 3N), tetraploidy (symbol: 4N), etc.
prader-willi syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
prader willi syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
prune belly syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
respiratory system abnormality	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
respiratory system; anomaly	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
respiratory tract malformation	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
respiratory system congenital anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
retina; dysplasia	Congenital, often bilateral, retinal abnormality characterized by the arrangement of outer nuclear retinal cells in a palisading or radiating pattern surrounding a central ocular space. This disorder is sometimes hereditary.
weak jaw	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
retrognathism nos	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
retrognathisms	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
saldino-noonan syndrome	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
sex chromosomal abnormalities	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sex chromosome abnorm	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sex chromosome abnormalities	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sirenomelia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
situs inversus nos	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
sjögren-larsson syndrome	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
skin; deformity	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
spina bifida manifesta	A form of spinal dysraphism associated with a protruding cyst made up of either meninges (i.e., a MENINGOCELE) or meninges in combination with spinal cord tissue (i.e., a MENINGOMYELOCELE). These lesions are frequently associated with spinal cord dysfunction, HYDROCEPHALUS, and SYRINGOMYELIA. (From Davis et al., Textbook of Neuropathology, 2nd ed, pp224-5)
sturge-weber syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
parkes weber syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
milles' syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
thyroglossal cyst	A cyst in the neck caused by persistence of portions of, or by lack of closure of, the primitive thyroglossal duct. (Dorland, 27th ed)
great vessel transposition nos	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of great artery	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
artery great transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
great arteries transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
total great vessel transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
tvp - tricuspid valve prolapse	Abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of TRICUSPID VALVE into the RIGHT ATRIUM during SYSTOLE. This allows the backflow of blood into right atrium leading to TRICUSPID VALVE INSUFFICIENCY; SYSTOLIC MURMURS. Its most common cause is not primary valve abnormality but rather the dilation of the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the tricuspid annulus.
truncus arteriosus communis	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
sclerosis; tuberous	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
pringle	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
bourneville's disease	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
turner syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
genitourinary anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
abnormality of the gu system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
albinism; ocular	Albinism affecting the eye in which pigment of the hair and skin is normal or only slightly diluted. The classic type is X-linked (Nettleship-Falls), but an autosomal recessive form also exists. Ocular abnormalities may include reduced pigmentation of the iris, nystagmus, photophobia, strabismus, and decreased visual acuity.
branchial cleft remnant	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
bullous ichthyosiform erythrodermas	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
nonbullous congenital ichthyosis	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
lamellar ichthyosis	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
collodion baby	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
acquired epidermolysis bullosa	Form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by trauma-induced, subepidermal blistering with no family history of the disease. Direct immunofluorescence shows IMMUNOGLOBULIN G deposited at the dermo-epidermal junction.
epidermolysis bullosa simplex	A form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by serous bullae that heal without scarring. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-5 and KERATIN-14 have been associated with several subtypes of epidermolysis bullosa simplex.
hallopeau siemens disease	An autosomal recessive allelic variant of epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica caused by mutation(s) in the COL7A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(VII) chain.
alligator skin	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
ichthyosiform dermatosis	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
ichthyosis x-linked	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
ichthyosis; x-linked	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
sbo - spina bifida occulta	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spinal dysrhaphia	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
hailey-hailey disease	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
polycystic kidney dis autosomal dominant	Kidney disorders with autosomal dominant inheritance and characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS with progressive deterioration of renal function.
total colonic aganglionosis	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
aganglionosis of colon	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
anomaly of spinal cord myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
skeletal anomaly-congen	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
musculo-skeletal anomaly nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital musculoskeletal deformity nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
patau's syndrome	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
edwards' syndrome	a kind of genetic disease
tongue tie	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
tongue tied	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
iaa - interrupted aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
single ventricle	An umbrella term used to describe several very different complex congenital heart defects that share the same problem: the heart has only one functional ventricle (anatomically right or left or indeterminate) supplying the systemic circulation. These defects include tricuspid atresia, hypoplastic left or right heart syndrome, double outlet right ventricle, double inlet left ventricle, and other forms of single ventricle defects.
vascular anomalies of eyelid	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
vascular anomaly of eyelid	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
congenital optic disc coloboma	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
congenital stenosis of mitral valve	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
duroziez's disease	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
duroziez	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital mitral valve stenosis	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
partial anomalous pulmonary venous connection	A congenital heart disorder in which one or two pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the right atrium instead. It may lead to arrhythmias and pulmonary hypertension.
congenital malformations of lung	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
congenital lung malformation	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
cleft lip/palate	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
cleft palate and lip	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
urinary tract; deformity	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital anomalies of urinary system	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
synostosis radioulnar	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the ulna. [HPO:probinson]
foot macrodactyly	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hydrocele	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
congenital hydrocoele of tunica vaginalis	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
caroli disease	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
neurofibromas	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
kallmanns syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with anosmia	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
cerebral gigantism	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
williams syndrome	A disorder caused by hemizygous microdeletion of about 28 genes on chromosome 7q11.23, including the ELASTIN gene. Clinical manifestations include SUPRAVALVULAR AORTIC STENOSIS; MENTAL RETARDATION; elfin facies; impaired visuospatial constructive abilities; and transient HYPERCALCEMIA in infancy. The condition affects both sexes, with onset at birth or in early infancy.
potter's anomaly of the kidney	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potter sequence	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
simplex; hemangioma	A dull red, firm, dome-shaped hemangioma, sharply demarcated from surrounding skin, usually located on the head and neck, which grows rapidly and generally undergoes regression and involution without scarring. It is caused by proliferation of immature capillary vessels in active stroma, and is usually present at birth or occurs within the first two or three months of life. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital limb malformation nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
limb malformation	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
pfeiffers syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly type v	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
bpes syndrome	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
conjunctival eyelid tetra syndrome	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
joint contractures with other abnormalities	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
malignant atrophic papulosis	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
triple-x chromosome syndrome	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
trisomy x syndrome	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
moebius syndromes	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
oculofacial paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
abnormality of the palm lines	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal; palmar creases	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal palmar crease	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
vascular rings	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
complete atrioventricular septal defect	A congenital heart defect characterized by a specific combination of heart defects with a common atrioventricular valve, primum atrial septal defect and inlet ventricular septal defect. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:16722604]
frontal bossing	A skeletal deformity characterized by an unusually prominent forehead. Causes include acromegaly, Hurler syndrome, Silver-Russell syndrome, and thalassemia major.
short and broad skull	Hlava s nápadně krátkým předozadním průměrem způsobená kraniosynostózou koronárního švu s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Jeho varianty jsou 1. brachycephalus simplex - zkrácení hlavně spodiny lební 2. pachycefalus - hlava vpředu krátká, vzadu široká 3. oxycefalus - hlava krátká, vpředu široká, do výšky zašpičatělá - věžovitá hlava 4. platycefalus - plochá hlava 5. trochocefalus - abnormálně kulatá hlava. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
cdd - congenital diaphragmatic defect	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
double ureter	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of two separate ureters draining a kidney.
nevus flammeus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
port wine stain	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
merms	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
posterior urethral valves	A developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of an obstructing membrane in the posterior urethra of the male newborn. It results in bladder obstruction.
congenital posterior urethral valves	A developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of an obstructing membrane in the posterior urethra of the male newborn. It results in bladder obstruction.
fetal; ichthyosis	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
ichthyosis; fetalis	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
coloboma of retina	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
tricuspid atresia	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
congenital atresia of tricuspid valve	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
chicken skin	A very common, non-neoplastic dermatologic disorder characterized by keratinization of hair follicles of the skin. It manifests as small, rough folliculocentric keratotic papules, usually in the outer-upper arms and thighs. It affects children and adolescents and usually improves with age.
ophryogenes; ulerythema	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
ulerythema; ophryogenes	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
becker's naevus	A benign lesion that is sometimes congenital and consists of an overgrowth of the epidermis and the presence of melanin-containing cells. It is found mostly in males and typically develops during childhood or adolescence, becoming darker and more hairy after puberty.
bird-headed dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
seckel bird head syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
bird-headed dwarf	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
distal arthrogryposis syndrome	An inherited primary limb malformation disorder characterized by congenital contractures of two or more different body areas and without primary neurologic and/or muscle disease that affects limb function. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8923935]
miller dieker syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
walker warburg syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
cod-md syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
cod-md syndromes	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
hard syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
freeman sheldon syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
goldenhar disease	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
goldenhar's syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
craniofacial microsomia	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
multiple pterygium syndrome	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
atriodigital dysplasia	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
weill-marchesani syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
phacomatosis	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
neuroectodermal dysplasia syndrome	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
adenoma sebaceum	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
facial angiofibroma	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
pringle tumour	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
peutz-jeghers harmatoma of small intestine	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
peutz-jeghers polyp of small intestine	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
turcot syndrome	An autosomal dominant hereditary neoplastic syndrome caused by mutations in the PMS2, MLH1, MSH2, or APC genes. There are two types described, type 1, characterized by the presence of glioblastoma and often associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal carcinoma, and type 2, characterized by the presence of medulloblastoma and familiar adenomatous polyposis.
moynahan's syndrome	A rare genetic epilepsy syndrome with characteristics of congenital alopecia, early-onset epilepsy, intellectual disability and speech delay. Large stature, delayed bone development and abnormal electroencephalogram have also been associated.
orbeli syndrome	A rare syndrome that is characterized by the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13. Signs and symptoms include low birth weight, craniofacial malformations, hands and feet malformations, and mental and psychomotor retardation.
schmid fraccaro syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
penta x syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
craniolacunia	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
accessory carpal bones	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
congenital hip deformity nos	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
talipes equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
tarsal bar	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
bifid; patella	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
congenital fusion of ribs	Complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs. [HPO:probinson]
atresia; nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
underdevelopment of nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
tracheal atresia	A congenital absence or considerable underdevelopment of the trachea such that communication between the larynx proximally and the alveoli of the lungs distally is lacking. [HPO:probinson, PMID:9776081]
bronchial atresia	A developmental anomaly characterised by focal obliteration of the proximal segment of a bronchus. The bronchial pattern is entirely normal distal to the site of stenosis. [UToronto:chum]
congenital emphysema	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
congenital pulmonary valve insufficiency	Dysfunction of the pulmonary valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
tricuspid valve hypoplasia	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
aortic valve atresia	A rare congenital heart defect characterized by the complete failure of the aortic valve to open. It is manifested during infancy with cyanosis, dyspnea, and rapidly progressing heart failure.
paper thin right ventricle	Uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium, normal tricuspid valve, and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium. [PMID:10859296, PMID:16322929]
absent coronary sinus	A developmental defect in which the coronary sinus fails to form. [HPO:nvasilevsky, PMID:24551710]
primary endocardial fibroelastosis	Endocardial fibroelastosis unassociated with other cardiac abnormalities.
preductal aortic coarctation	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized proximal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the preductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
hypoplasia of aortic arch	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
congenital aortic arch hypoplasia	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
congenital hypoplasia of ascending aorta	Significant luminal narrowing of a long segment of or the entire ascending aorta. [PMID:13938144]
double aortic arch	A conenital abnormality of the aortic arch in which the two embryonic aortc arches form a vascular ring that surrounds the trachea or esophagus and then join to form the descending aorta. Double aortic arch can cause symptoms because of compression of the esophagus (dysphagia, cyanosis while eating) or trachea (stridor). [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:15148283, PMID:15564538]
aortic diverticulum	A patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring. [DDD:dbrown]
aorta overriding	An overriding aorta is a congenital heart defect where the aorta is positioned directly over a ventricular septal defect, instead of over the left ventricle. The result is that the aorta receives some blood from the right ventricle, which reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood. It is one of the four conditions of the Tetralogy of Fallot. The aortic root can be displaced toward the front (anteriorly) or directly above the septal defect, but it is always abnormally located to the right of the root of the pulmonary artery. The degree of override is quite variable, with 5-95% of the valve being connected to the right ventricle. [HPO:curators]
anomaly pulmonary vein	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
left sided superior vena cava	A rare congenital vascular anomaly that results when the left superior cardinal vein caudal to the innominate vein fails to regress. [PMID:18847480]
netherton's syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
birthmark nos	<p>Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html">Pigmented</a> birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/moles.html">Moles</a> can be birthmarks.</p> <p>No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery. </p> <p>Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider.</p>
naevus anaemicus et oligaemicus	A congenital skin lesion characterized by irregular hypopigmented macules that coalesce to form plaques and occur particularly on the chest. It is generally present at birth or develops in the first days of life. It is more common in females. Diagnosis is confirmed by applying gentle friction to the lesion and the surrounding skin and checking that the erythema produced in the healthy skin does not appear in the hypopigmented lesion. This pale macule becomes more conspicuous when the lesion and its surroundings are rubbed. The margin of the naevus is ill-defined and consists of an archipelago of small anaemic spots. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
comedonicus; nevus	A type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged, dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones. [PMID:23888253]
teeth malformed mulberry molar	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
macrodontia	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
hypoplasia of cementum	The decrease or absence of cementum. The cementum anchors the periodontal ligament attachment fiber between the tooth root and the alveolar bone. Its absence leads to early loss of teeth. [PMID:31468724]
anterior openbite	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
anterior open bite	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
bite opening	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
incisive canal cyst	A non-odontogenic cyst of developmental origin that arises in the midline of the anterior maxilla. It is found exclusively in the midline of the anterior hard palate. (WHO 2017)
nasopalatine duct cyst	A non-odontogenic cyst of developmental origin that arises in the midline of the anterior maxilla. It is found exclusively in the midline of the anterior hard palate. (WHO 2017)
double tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
absent uvula	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
esophageal abnormality	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula	Congenital tracheoesophageal fistula without esophageal atresia.
congenital small stomach	A developmental anomaly wtih a small tubular or saccular midline stomach. [PMID:10067744]
atresia of the small intestine	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
congenital small intestinal atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
duodenal atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the duodenum.
apple-peel syndrome	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the jejunum.
megaloduodenum	Dilation and elongation of the duodenum with hypertrophy of all layers of the duodenum. []
abnormality of the gallbladder	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly of gallbladder	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
congenital small pancreas	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
pancreatic divisum	A congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development. Three variants have been described: type 1 or classical divisum in which there is total failure of fusion; type 2 in which dorsal drainage is dominant in the absence of the duct of Wirsung; and type 3 or incomplete divisum where a small communicating branch is present. [PMID:24265565]
divisum pancreas	A congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development. Three variants have been described: type 1 or classical divisum in which there is total failure of fusion; type 2 in which dorsal drainage is dominant in the absence of the duct of Wirsung; and type 3 or incomplete divisum where a small communicating branch is present. [PMID:24265565]
aberrant thyroid tissue	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
renal anomaly	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
unspecified anomaly of kidney	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of kidney	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
lobulation of kidney	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
congenital hydronephrosis	Collection of urine in the renal pelvis that results in dilatation of the renal pelvis and calyces that is present at birth.
patent urachus	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
hermaphrodites true	A rare condition characterized by the unequivocal presence of both testicular and ovarian tissues in an individual. It is usually manifested with ambiguous external genitalia.
genitalia ambiguous	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
undescended ovary	Undescended or ectopic ovaries are characterized by the attachment of the upper pole of the ovary to an area above the level of the common iliac vessels. [PMID:12584384]
ovarian streak	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality congenital uterine	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterus anomalies	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; uterus	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
imperforate; vagina	Embryologic remnant consisting of a persistent connective tissue membrane within the vaginal vault.
vanishing testes	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
monorchism	Having only one testis in the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
congenital aplasia of vas deferens	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of vas deferens	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
brain-congenital anomal	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
third ventricle colloid cyst	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
schizencephalic cysts	A rare developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of clefs in the cerebral hemispheres. The abnormality may involve one or both cerebral hemispheres. Signs and symptoms include developmental delays, mental retardation, paralysis, presence of a small head, and seizures.
glioma nasal	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
ecchordosis physaliphora	A very rare, slow growing, usually asymptomatic hamartomatous lesion that arises from ectopic notochordal tissue. Morphologically it is characterized by the presence of typical physaliphorous cells in a myxoid background.
sinus pericranii	Vzácné anomální spojení mezi intrakraniálním a extrakraniálním žilním oběhem přes diploe, střední houbovitou vrstvu lebečních kostí. Abnormální drenáž intrakraniálních žilních splavů vede často k dilataci žilních struktur skalpu. Onemocnění může být vrozené nebo způsobené poraněním.
rachischises	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
norrie disease	A rare, X-linked recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the NPD gene. It is characterized by developmental retinal abnormalities that result in blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. Additional manifestations include progressive hearing loss and developmental motor skills delays.
degeneration; axenfeld	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
persistent hyaloid vasculatures	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
persistent hyaloid arteries	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
congenital ptosis of upper eyelid	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital ptosis of eyelid	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
accessory eyelid	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
congenital deformity of ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
ear anomalies	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformation of the neck	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
aberrant spleen	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
splenogonadal fusion	Joining of the spleen and a gonad during embryological development. [PMID:24137272]
cyclopia defect	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
monophthalmus	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
amyelencephalus	Congenital absence of the spinal cord and brain
cebocephalus	Two orbital cavities and two eyes present, the region between being narrowed. Expected skeletal alterations include fused frontonasal and/or maxillary bones and incisors. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
meckel's diverticulitis	Inflammation of a congenital diverticulum of the lower intestine.
alstrom syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by multiple organ dysfunction. The key clinical features include retinal degeneration (NYSTAGMUS, PATHOLOGIC; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and eventual blindness), childhood obesity, sensorineural hearing loss, and normal mental development. Endocrinologic complications include TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; HYPERINSULINEMIA; ACANTHOSIS NIGRICANS; HYPOTHYROIDISM; and progressive renal and hepatic failures. The disease is caused by mutations in the ALMS1 gene.
inspissated bile syndrome	A syndrome characterized by persistent jaundice, hemolytic anemia, and hepatomegaly in a newborn. It is characterized by the presence of inspissated bile plugs in the bile ducts.
congenital floppy infant	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
lingual goitre	Sjuklig förstoring av lingual tyreoidea, ektopisk sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Tillståndet kan ge upphov till luftvägshinder, sväljningssvårigheter eller hypertyreossymtom.
shwachman diamond oski syndrome	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
shwachman syndrome	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
skin; aplasia	Localized or widespread congenital absence of skin. The lesions most frequently occur in the scalp, are well demarcated, may be superficial or deep, and are not associated with inflammation.
cyst gingival	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
hypoplasia optic nerve	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
septooptic dysplasia	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
septo optic dysplasia	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
adhesion of eyelids	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
polymorphous posterior corneal dystrophy	This corneal dystrophy affects the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea and is characterized by polymorphous plaques of calcium deposits in the deep stromal layers of the cornea, and occasionally by vesicular lesions of the endothelium and edema of the deep corneal stroma. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deafness nos	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
congenital deafness	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
congenital complete atrioventricular block	A disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a complete atrioventricular block that manifests during fetal life or soon after birth. It may be isolated or associated with other congenital heart defects. Isolated congenital complete atrioventricular block may be associated with maternal connective tissue disorders.
congenital anomaly of capillary	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
lateral developmental jaw cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
hypoplasia of eyelid	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
epiblepharon	Redundant eyelid skin pressing the eyelashes against the cornea and/or conjunctiva. [PMID:19125427]
alacrima - hypolacrimation	Absence of tear secretion. [HPO:probinson]
lens coloboma	A sectoral indentation of the crystalline lens, usually due to zonular weakness or absence. [HPO:probinson]
flattened cornea	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
macrocornea	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
multiple pupil	Multiple pupils. [DDD:ncarter]
anomaly; peter's	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
l-transposition	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
double inlet right ventricle	The condition in which both atria are joined to the right ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually, the left ventricle is hypoplastic. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
double inlet left ventricle	The condition in which both atria are joined to the left ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually there is a hypoplastic right ventricle, which may be on the opposite side of the heart as usual. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
absent right sided atrioventricular connection	A defect where there is no connection between the right atrium and right ventricle. [PMID:7104116]
superior vena caval duplication	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
svc duplication	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
unguarded tricuspid valve	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
atresia; mitral	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
mitral; atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
congenital atresia of mitral valve	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
right ventricular abnormality	An abnormality of the right ventricle of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
right hypoplastic heart syndrome	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
hypoplastic right heart syndrome	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
quadricuspid aortic valve disease	The presence of an aortic valve with four instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [PMID:27390747]
aorto left ventricular tunnel	Aorto-left ventricular tunnel (ALVT) is a congenital extracardiac channel connecting the ascending aorta above the sino-tubular junction to either left ventricular cavity. [PMID:26085759]
type b interrupted aortic arch	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
interrupted aortic arch type b	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
total absence of the pericardium	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
atresia large intestine	A malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the large intestine.
short segment hirschsprung's disease	The most common form of Hirschsprung Disease, this is characterized by a lack of nerve cells in the sigmoid colon and rectum. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
penile duplication	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
congenital fistula of urachus -retired-	Persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus. [Eurenomics:ewuehl]
hypoplasia of spine	Small, underdeveloped vertebral bodies. [HPO:probinson]
extra ribs	The presence of more than 12 rib pairs. [HPO:probinson]
cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
ferguson-smith tumour	A rare genetic neoplastic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance characterized by multiple, recurrent skin cancers that spontaneously resolve. It has been described almost exclusively in families of Scottish origin. It is caused by a mutation in the tumor-suppressing gene, TGFBR1, on chromosome 9. Clinical presentation is usually rapidly growing squamous cell carcinomas or keratoacanthomas that primarily localize to sun-exposed areas. Appearance of the neoplasms occurs over several weeks before receding over the course of several months if untreated. The regression of the lesions leaves pitting cicatrices but no other known sequelae.
blue rubber bleb naevus syndrome	A hemangioma present at birth. It is characterized by the presence of rubbery skin lesions.
congenital gingival granular cell tumor	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital granular cell tumor	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital epulis	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
epulis congen	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
gingival granular cell tumor	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
embryonic mosaic	The occurrence of 2 or more cell lines with different genetic or chromosomal make-up, within a single individual or tissue.
mosaicism nos	The occurrence of 2 or more cell lines with different genetic or chromosomal make-up, within a single individual or tissue.
craniotabes; neonatal	Softening of the skull seen in newborns due to incomplete mineralization.
roberts tetraphocomelia syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
common atrium	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
cuspis accessoria	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
talon cusp	Talon cusp is an accessory cusp located near the cingulum (the portion of the lingual or palatal aspect of the tooth that forms a convex protuberance at the cervical third of the anatomic crown). [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
increased size of lower jaw	Malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar (mesioclusion).
palmoplantar keratoderma with leucoplakia	A hereditary syndrome this is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma accompanied by leukoplakia and may be associated with a high lifetime risk of esophageal cancer, as seen in Howel-Evans Syndrome.
papillary syringadenoma	A benign adnexal neoplasm occurring during childhood or adolescence. It usually presents as a papular lesion or a plaque on the head and neck. It may arise in an organoid nevus such as sebaceous. It is characterized by an endophytic invagination of the epithelium into the dermis. There are dermal cystic spaces present, containing villous projections. Complete excision is curative.
fukuyama muscular dystrophy	An autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the gene encoding fukutin (FKTN). It is associated with characteristic brain and eye malformations, seizures, and mental retardation.
distichiasis	Double rows of eyelashes. [HPO:probinson]
closely spaced eyes	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
hypoplasia; clavicle	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
lobar holoprosencephaly	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
dysplasia of cerebral cortex	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
failure of development of eyebrows	Absence of the eyebrow. [HPO:probinson]
eyes at different heights	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
misaligned eyes	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
posteriorly-rotated ears	A type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation (the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head, and the inferior part of the ears towards the front). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
bilateral ductus arteriosus	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
larynx hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the larynx. [HPO:probinson]
hamartomata of tongue	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
unilateral undescended testis	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
udt - undescended testis unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral renal dysgenesis	A unilateral form of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral renal dysplasia	A finding of congenital malformations in both kidneys characterized by the presence of cysts of various sizes, primitive ducts, islands of metaplastic cartilage and undifferentiated mesenchyme, and the absence of cortico-medullary demarcation.
overgrowth of one arm	Overgrowth of only one arm. [HPO:probinson]
overgrowth of upper limb	Overgrowth of only one arm. [HPO:probinson]
congenital fused carpal bone	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
carpal synostosis	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
hitch-hiker thumb	With the hand relaxed and the thumb in the plane of the palm, the axis of the thumb forms an angle of at least 90 degrees with the long axis of the hand. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
hitchhiker thumb	With the hand relaxed and the thumb in the plane of the palm, the axis of the thumb forms an angle of at least 90 degrees with the long axis of the hand. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
undergrowth of the thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplasia of thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplastic thumbs	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
congenital undergrowth of lower limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
unspecified anomaly of lower limb	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
lower limb deformities congen	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
lobster-claw foot deformity	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
deficient skull ossification	A reduction in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull. [HPO:probinson]
defect of skull ossification	A reduction in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull. [HPO:probinson]
cleft of primary palate	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft primary palate	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft of soft palate only	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
submucosal cleft palate	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
lumbosacr spondylolysis	A defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch of a lumbar or sacral vertebra that is present at the time of birth.
abnormal spinal segmentation	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type i	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
abnormal dermatoglyphics	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of nipple	Underdevelopment of the nipple. [HPO:probinson]
aminopterin embryopathy syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
hypospadias; perineal	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8097257]
keratoderma with carcinoma of oesophagus	Forma de queratodermia palmoplantar difusa que se produce entre los 5 y los 15 años de edad y que podría asociarse con el desarrollo ulterior de cáncer de esófago
abnorm congen nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
neurological abnormality	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
abnormality of the nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
nervous system congenital anomalies	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
hepatic avm/h	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the liver.
retractile testicle	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
retractible testis	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
gastrointestinal tract avm/h	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
coloboma palpebral	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
congenital absence of kidney nos	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
congenital fiber type disproportion	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
cornea posterior embryotoxon	A posterior embryotoxon is the presence of a prominent and anteriorly displaced line of Schwalbe. [HPO:probinson]
rectum; imperforate	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
absence rectum	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
pulmonic stenosis with cafe-au-lait spots	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
cafe-au-lait spots with pulmonic stenosis	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
penile epispadias	Displacement of the urethral opening on the dorsal (superior) surface of the penis. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
duodenal web	Partial or complete obstruction of the duodenal lumen due to the presence of a membranous web.
incomplete formation of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
hypoplastic radii	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
congenital camptodactylia	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly of the ischium	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal lung lobation	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
clefts mandibular	Midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues. [PMID:19125436]
cleft face	A congenital malformation with a cleft (gap or opening) in the face. [HPO:probinson]
increased anogenital distance	An indication that the anogenital distance is greater than the norm.
abnormally small eyelid	Abnormal shortness of the vertical dimensions of the eyelids. [http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/microblepharia]
congenital nystagmus	Nystagmus, který nastává při kongenitálních poruchách n. II., sítnice, popř. u vrozené slepoty. Je při něm n. kyvadlový s bifazickým nebo monofázickým rytmem. Funkce vestibulárního aparátu je neporušená. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2013 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
acranias	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
cavus foot	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
congenital anomaly of upper limb	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
exomphalos	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
omphalocoele	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
jacobsen syndrome	A clinically recognized congenital malformation condition caused by a distal 11q deletion. The features of the syndrome are growth retardation, psychomotor retardation, trigonocephaly, divergent intermittent strabismus, epicanthus, telecanthus, broad nasal bridge, short nose with anteverted nostrils, carp-shaped upper lip, retrognathia, low-set dysmorphic ears, bilateral camptodactyly, and hammertoes. Platelet dysfunction is a feature in Paris-Trousseau type thrombocytopenia.
krause-kivlin syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
ohdo madokoro sonoda syndrome	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
becker muscular dystrophy	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
porokeratosis of mibelli	A clonal disorder of keratinization with one or multiple atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella. [HPO:skoehler]
denys-drash syndrome	Ett sällsynt syndrom, kännetecknat av urogenitala missbildningar, pseudohermafroditism och Wilms tumör (nefroblastom).
male agonadism	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
anorchia	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
larynx; agenesis	A congenital deformity in which there is no laryngeal structure.
carpenters syndrome	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
carpenter's syndrome	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
abnormal complement of teeth	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
cyst; residual	Cysta, která zůstává v čelisti poté, co extrahujeme zub, na jehož kořeni se cysta vyvinula. Cysta se může zvětšovat bez přítomnosti zubu. Je to zvláštní forma radikulární cysty.
transitional vertebrae	Una anomalía congénita de una vértebra en la cual presenta características de una estructura o región adyacente.
hyaloid corpuscle	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
euryblepharon	Euryblepharon is a congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure. The eyelid is shortened vertically compared with the horizontal dimension, with associated lateral canthal malpositioning and lateral ectropion abnormally wide lid opening. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15249382, PMID:15530943, PMID:24719364]
pinhole pupils	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
overbite unspecified	A malocclusion in which maxillary incisor and canine teeth project over the mandibular teeth excessively. The overlap is measured perpendicular to the occlusal plane and is also called vertical overlap. When the overlap is measured parallel to the occlusal plane it is referred to as overjet.
compression; facies	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetric facies	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
crooked face	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
congenital pigmented melanocytic naevus	A melanocytic nevus that is present at birth. It may present as a small macular, papular, or plaque-like lesion or as a large brown to black hairy skin lesion.
germinal cell aplasia	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
del castillo syndrome	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
single umbilical artery	Congenital abnormality where one, instead of the usual two, UMBILICAL ARTERY connects the fetus to the placenta.
coronal hypospadias was observed	A mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis. [HPO:probinson]
chromosome duplications	An aberration in which an extra chromosome or a chromosomal segment is made.
bonnevie-ullrich syndrome	Souhrnný název pro vrozené syndromy s pterygium colli, např. Turnerův syndrom, syndrom Noonanové aj. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
status bonnevie ullrich	Souhrnný název pro vrozené syndromy s pterygium colli, např. Turnerův syndrom, syndrom Noonanové aj. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
synostotic posterior plagiocephaly	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture. [HPO:probinson]
laryngeal cleft	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
giant pigmented hairy nevus	A rare melanocytic lesion occurring at birth, comprising at least 5% of the body surface area. It usually presents as a dark brown to black hairy lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of a compound or intradermal nevus. There is an increased risk of malignant transformation to melanoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and poorly differentiated malignant tumors.
anterior segment dysgenesis	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
humeral-radial synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
focal facial dermal dysplasia	Focal facial dermal dysplasias (FFDD) are rare ectodermal dysplasias, with characteristics of congenital bitemporal (resembling forceps marks) or preauricular scar-like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations. Four types of FFDD are described. Types II and III present with a variable facial dysmorphism including distichiasis (upper lashes) or lacking eyelashes, and upward slanting and thinned lateral eyebrows with a flattened nasal bridge and full upper lip. Types I and IV are infrequently associated with extra-cutaneous anomalies.
congenital anomaly of vein	A vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover. A venous malformation may present as a blue patch on the skin ranging to a soft blue mass. Venous malformations are easily compressible and usually swell in thewhen venous pressure increases (e.g., when held in a dependent position or when a child cries). They may be relatively localized or quite extensive within an anatomic region. [HPO:probinson]
chicken breast	A clinical finding in which there is protuberance of the sternum visible on examination of the chest.
anterior chamber anomalies	Abnormality of the anterior chamber, which is the space in the eye that is behind the cornea and in front of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral trilobed lungs	Both lungs have three lobes. Normally, the left lung has two lobes, whereas the right lung has three lobes. [HPO:probinson]
atrial heterotaxy	Common atrium without defining morphologic features. [DDD:dbrown]
anorectal anomalies	An abnormality of the anus or rectum. [HPO:probinson]
anorectal malformation	An abnormality of the anus or rectum. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nephrotic syndrome	Nephrotic syndrome with onset within the first three months of life. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
dextrotransposition of the great arteries	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the right of the pulmonary artery. This is the most common kind of TGA. [PMID:25082585]
dysplasia of kidney	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
lumbar myelomeningocele	A congenital abnormality in the lumbar region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
thoracic myelomeningocele	A congenital abnormality in the thoracic region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
cervical myelomeningocele	A congenital abnormality in the cervical region of the spine in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
congenital anomaly of cardiovascular system	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
congenital cvs anomaly nos	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
hypocalcification of enamel	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
simple craniosynostosis	Nonsyndromic premature fusion of a single suture.
thost-unna diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma	An autosomally dominant inherited form of palmoplantar keratoderma that is characterized by a non-gradient diffuse pattern and often, hyperhidrosis of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It does not extend beyond the palms, knucklels pads, nails, and the soles.
penile agenesis	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
myelocystocele nos	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
myelocystocele of unspecified site	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
linear sebaceous naevus	Síndrome caracterizada por lesões na face, couro cabeludo ou pescoço, consistindo de malformações hipoplásicas congênitas de estruturas cutâneas que, com o tempo, originam hiperplasia verrucosa. Além disso, está associado com sintomas neurológicos e anomalias esqueléticas, oftalmológicas, urogenitais e cardiovasculares.
nevus vascular	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
vascular hamartomas	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
naevus vascular	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
developmental delay	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
congenita	Denoting something that is present at birth.
exstrophy	Eversion of a hollow organ and exposure, inside out, and protruded through the abdominal wall. [HPO:probinson]
hamartoma	A focal malformation resembling a neoplasm, composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues that normally occur in the affected area.
odontogenic cyst	Cysts found in the jaws and arising from epithelium involved in tooth formation. They include follicular cysts (e.g., primordial cyst, dentigerous cyst, multilocular cyst), lateral periodontal cysts, and radicular cysts. They may become keratinized (odontogenic keratocysts). Follicular cysts may give rise to ameloblastomas and, in rare cases, undergo malignant transformation.
intestine malrotation	A congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated (twisted). It may result in intestinal obstruction.
acquired hypoplasia	Incomplete or arrested development of an organ or a part
hemihypertrophy	A condition in which one side of the body or a part of one side is larger than the other. Children with hemihypertrophy have an increased risk of developing certain types of cancer, including Wilms tumor (a childhood kidney cancer) and liver cancer.
glandular odontogenic cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst with epithelial features that simulate salivary gland or glandular differentiation. (WHO 2017)
orthokeratinized odontogenic cyst	An odontogenic cyst that is entirely or predominantly lined by orthokeratinized stratified squamous epithelium. (WHO 2017)
amelia	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
amelia nos	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
agenesis; brain	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
congenital aniridia	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
arachnodactyly	An abnormal bone development that is characterized by extra long and slender hands and fingers, such that the clenched thumb extends beyond the ulnar side of the hand. Arachnodactyly can include feet and toes. Arachnodactyly has been associated with several gene mutations and syndromes.
beckwith syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
biliary atresia	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
bloom's syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectatic ERYTHEMA of the face, photosensitivity, DWARFISM and other abnormalities, and a predisposition toward developing cancer. The Bloom syndrome gene (BLM) encodes a RecQ-like DNA helicase.
bone dysplasia	Diseases resulting in abnormal GROWTH or abnormal MORPHOGENESIS of BONES.
developmental bone disease	Diseases resulting in abnormal GROWTH or abnormal MORPHOGENESIS of BONES.
cyst of branchial cleft	A tumor derived from branchial epithelium or branchial rests. (Dorland, 27th ed)
bronchial cyst	A usually spherical cyst, arising as an embryonic out-pouching of the foregut or trachea. It is generally found in the mediastinum or lung and is usually asymptomatic unless it becomes infected.
pulmonary sequestration	A developmental anomaly in which a mass of nonfunctioning lung tissue lacks normal connection with the tracheobroncheal tree and receives an anomalous blood supply originating from the descending thoracic or abdominal aorta. The mass may be extralobar, i.e., completely separated from normally connected lung, or intralobar, i.e., partly surrounded by normal lung.
ciliary motility defect	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
congenital cataract	Cataract that is present at birth.
meningocele: [cerebral] or [cranial]	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
congenital liver fibrosis	A congenital disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It affects the hepatobiliary system and the kidneys. It is characterized by liver fibrosis, portal hypertension, and renal cysts.
spinal meningocele nos	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
spinal meningocele of unspecified site	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
cor triatriatum	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
crouzon syndrome	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
testicle maldescended	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
dens invaginatus	Anomaly of the tooth, found chiefly in upper lateral incisors. It is characterized by invagination of the enamel at the incisal edge.
dens in dente	Anomaly of the tooth, found chiefly in upper lateral incisors. It is characterized by invagination of the enamel at the incisal edge.
interdental space wide	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
diastema of teeth nos	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
split cord malformation	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
thymic hypoplasia syndrome	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
ventricle; double outlet right	Incomplete transposition of the great vessels in which both the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY arise from the RIGHT VENTRICLE. The only outlet of the LEFT VENTRICLE is a large ventricular septal defect (VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS or VSD). The various subtypes are classified by the location of the septal defect, such as subaortic, subpulmonary, or noncommitted.
ebsteins anomaly	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
congenital ectodermal defects	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
infect ectromelia	A viral infection of mice, causing edema and necrosis followed by limb loss.
chondroectoderm dysplas	Dwarfism occurring in association with defective development of skin, hair, and teeth, polydactyly, and defect of the cardiac septum. (Dorland, 27th ed)
cranium bifidum	Brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull. The majority of congenital encephaloceles occur in the occipital or frontal regions. Clinical features include a protuberant mass that may be pulsatile. The quantity and location of protruding neural tissue determines the type and degree of neurologic deficit. Visual defects, psychomotor developmental delay, and persistent motor deficits frequently occur.
occipital encephalocele	A type of encephalocele (that is, a a protrusion of part of the cranial contents including brain tissue through a congenital opening in the cranium, typically covered with skin or mucous membrane) in the occipital region of the skull. Occipital encephalocele presents as a midline swelling over the occipital bone. It is usually covered with normal full-thickness scalp. [DDD:awilkie, HPO:probinson]
epidermolysis bullosa	Group of genetically determined disorders characterized by the blistering of skin and mucosae. There are four major forms: acquired, simple, junctional, and dystrophic. Each of the latter three has several varieties.
imperforate oesophagus	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
atresia esophageal	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
fdh - focal dermal hypoplasia	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
congenital deformities of feet	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
gilbert syndrome	A benign familial disorder, transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. It is characterized by low-grade chronic hyperbilirubinemia with considerable daily fluctuations of the bilirubin level.
glycogenosis type viii	An x-linked recessive hepatic glycogen storage disease resulting from lack of expression of phosphorylase-b-kinase activity. Symptoms are relatively mild; hepatomegaly, increased liver glycogen, and decreased leukocyte phosphorylase are present. Liver shrinkage occurs in response to glucagon.
gonadal dysgenesis	A number of syndromes with defective gonadal developments such as streak GONADS and dysgenetic testes or ovaries. The spectrum of gonadal and sexual abnormalities is reflected in their varied sex chromosome (SEX CHROMOSOMES) constitution as shown by the karyotypes of 45,X monosomy (TURNER SYNDROME); 46,XX (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46XX); 46,XY (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46,XY); and sex chromosome MOSAICISM; (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, MIXED). Their phenotypes range from female, through ambiguous, to male. This concept includes gonadal agenesis.
congenital deformity of hand	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
abnormality of the cardiac septa	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
ventricular septal defect	Developmental abnormalities in any portion of the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communications between the two lower chambers of the heart. Classification of ventricular septal defects is based on location of the communication, such as perimembranous, inlet, outlet (infundibular), central muscular, marginal muscular, or apical muscular defect.
hippel lindau dis	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
megacolon congen	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hydranencephaly	A congenital condition where the greater portions of the cerebral hemispheres and CORPUS STRIATUM are replaced by CSF and glial tissue. The meninges and the skull are well formed, which is consistent with earlier normal embryogenesis of the telencephalon. Bilateral occlusions of the internal carotid arteries in utero is a potential mechanism. Clinical features include intact brainstem reflexes without evidence of higher cortical activity. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p307)
incontinentia pigmenti	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
darier-white diseases	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
kidney sponge	En icke ärftlig njursjukdom som kännetecknas av en onormal vidgning av samlingsrören i njurmärgen och njurpapillerna. Samlingsrören innehåller cystor eller utbuktningar fyllda med en geléartad substans eller små njurstenar, vilket kan leda till infektioner eller obstruktion. Svampnjure måste särskiljas från medfödd eller ärftlig polycystnjure.
klippel-feil syndrome	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
nielsen's disease	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
dystrophia brevicollis congenita	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
klippel trenaunay disease	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
ktw syndromes	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
langer giedion syndrome	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
majewski-type short rib polydactyly syndrome	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
mesenteric cysts	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
micromelia	The presence of abnormally small extremities. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of neural tube closure	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
cyst; neuroenteric	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
lowe-bickel syndrome	A sex-linked recessive disorder affecting multiple systems including the EYE, the NERVOUS SYSTEM, and the KIDNEY. Clinical features include congenital CATARACT; MENTAL RETARDATION; and renal tubular dysfunction (FANCONI SYNDROME; RENAL TUBULAR ACIDOSIS; X-LINKED HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA or vitamin-D-resistant rickets) and SCOLIOSIS. This condition is due to a deficiency of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-5-phosphatase leading to defects in PHOSPHATIDYLINOSITOL metabolism and INOSITOL signaling pathway. (from Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p60; Am J Hum Genet 1997 Jun;60(6):1384-8)
disease osgood schlatter	Morbus Osgood-Schlatter is a Juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the Tuberositas tibiae. [HPO:sdoelken]
clubbed nail pachydermoperiostosis	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
persistent fetal circulation	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
atrial septal defect ostium primum	A congenital defect in the atrial septum at the level of the atrioventricular valves, resulting in abnormalities in the mitral and/or tricuspid valve; this defect is most commonly seen in those with Trisomy 21.
phocomelia	Missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts (such as hands and/or feet) connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
pierre-robin anomaly	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
placenta accreta	Abnormal placentation in which all or parts of the PLACENTA are attached directly to the MYOMETRIUM due to a complete or partial absence of DECIDUA. It is associated with POSTPARTUM HEMORRHAGE because of the failure of placental separation.
placenta praevia	Ett tillstånd när moderkakan är implanterad nära utloppet av livmodern och helt eller delvis täcker öppningen från livmodern till livmoderhalsen. Placenta previa är orsaken till antepartum (i sen graviditet) blödningar och förtidig förlossning.
pseudohermaphroditism nos	condition in which the gonads are of one sex but one or more contradictions exist in the morphologic criteria of sex; female pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal female with partial masculinization; male pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal male with incomplete masculinization.
stenoses pulm subvalv	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
retinal dysplasia	Congenital, often bilateral, retinal abnormality characterized by the arrangement of outer nuclear retinal cells in a palisading or radiating pattern surrounding a central ocular space. This disorder is sometimes hereditary.
burton skeletal dysplasia	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
sirens	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
situs inversus viscerum	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
ichthyosis oligophrenia syndrome	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
genetic skin disease	Diseases of the skin with a genetic component, usually the result of various inborn errors of metabolism.
sturges syndrome weber	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndactyly	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the webbing between adjacent fingers or toes. Syndactylies are classified as complete or incomplete by the degree of joining. Syndactylies can also be simple or complex. Simple syndactyly indicates joining of only skin or soft tissue; complex syndactyly marks joining of bony elements.
syndactylia	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the webbing between adjacent fingers or toes. Syndactylies are classified as complete or incomplete by the degree of joining. Syndactylies can also be simple or complex. Simple syndactyly indicates joining of only skin or soft tissue; complex syndactyly marks joining of bony elements.
tetralogy fallot	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
tooth abnormality	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
tooth crowding	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
teeth; supernumerary	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
classical transposition of great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
common truncus	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
werner syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
white heifer disease	Vrozená vada pohlavních orgánů u bílých jalovic určitých plemen skotu (např. Belgian Blue, Shorthorn). Bílá barva je dědičný recesivní znak spojený s defekty samičího pohlavního ústrojí (Müllerův vývod). Tyto jalovice jsou většinou sterilní.
white heifer dis	Vrozená vada pohlavních orgánů u bílých jalovic určitých plemen skotu (např. Belgian Blue, Shorthorn). Bílá barva je dědičný recesivní znak spojený s defekty samičího pohlavního ústrojí (Müllerův vývod). Tyto jalovice jsou většinou sterilní.
branchial clefting	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
epidermolysis bullosa simplices	A form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by serous bullae that heal without scarring. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-5 and KERATIN-14 have been associated with several subtypes of epidermolysis bullosa simplex.
congenital junctional epidermolysis bullosa	Form of epidermolysis bullosa having onset at birth or during the neonatal period and transmitted through autosomal recessive inheritance. It is characterized by generalized blister formation, extensive denudation, and separation and cleavage of the basal cell plasma membranes from the basement membrane.
ichthyosis simplex	Most common form of ICHTHYOSIS characterized by prominent scaling especially on the exterior surfaces of the extremities. It is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
x-linked recessive ichthyosis	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
bifida occulta spina	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
schistorrhachis	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
tethered cord	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
alagille's syndrome	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
cor biloculare	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only two chambers.
macrotia	Median longitudinal ear length greater than two standard deviations above the mean and median ear width greater than two standard deviations above the mean (objective); or, apparent increase in length and width of the pinna (subjective). [PMID:19152421]
congenital aphakia	Absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect. [HPO:probinson]
hyperdactylies	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
maladie de sprengel familiale	A congenital skeletal deformity characterized by the elevation of one scapula (thus, one scapula is located superior to the other). [HPO:probinson]
madelung deformity	An anomaly related to partial closure, or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate, which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius. This leads to shortening of the radius and relative overgrowth of the ulna. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12362035]
madelung's deformity	An anomaly related to partial closure, or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate, which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius. This leads to shortening of the radius and relative overgrowth of the ulna. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12362035]
hydrorhachis	Dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo. [HPO:sdoelken]
coloboma of optic nerve	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
congenital bicuspid aortic valve insufficiency	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
tongue; absent	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
polycystic liver disease	A usually asymptomatic hereditary disorder which is often associated with polycystic kidney disease. It is characterized by the presence of fluid-filled biliary cysts throughout the liver.
polydactyly of fingers	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers. [HPO:probinson]
polydactyly of the foot	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes. [HPO:probinson]
osseous finger syndactyly	Webbing or fusion of the fingers, involving soft parts and including fusion of individual finger bones. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the fingers in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:sdoelken]
fusion; toes	Webbing or fusion of the toes, involving soft parts and including fusion of individual bones of the toes. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a tibial-fibular axis. Fusions of bones of the toes in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:sdoelken]
macrodactyly of fingers	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several fingers. [HPO:probinson]
macrodactylia of toes	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
olfacto genital dysplasia	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
anosmia eunuchoidism	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
dubowitz syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, and a small, round, triangular shaped face with a pointed, receding chin, a broad, wide-tipped nose, and wide-set eyes with drooping eyelids.
silver-russell syndrome	Genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by low birth weight, postnatal growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, bilateral body asymmetry, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers. Alterations in GENETIC IMPRINTING are involved. Hypomethylation of IGF2/H19 locus near an imprinting center region of chromosome 11p15 plays a role in a subset of Silver-Russell syndrome. Hypermethylation of the same chromosomal region, on the other hand, can cause BECKWITH-WIEDEMANN SYNDROME. Maternal UNIPARENTAL DISOMY for chromosome 7 is known to play a role in its etiology.
van der woude's syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
aarskog-scott syndrome	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
tar syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
splenic agenesis syndrome	A type of heterotaxy where some paired structures on opposite sides of the left-right axis of the body are symmetrical mirror images of each other, and have the morphology of the normal right-sided structures. [PMID:21731561]
aicardi's syndrome	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
agenesis corpus callosum	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
nemaline myopathy	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
congenital anomaly of limb	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
congenital limb anomaly nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
noack syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
oculoauriculovertebral spectrum with radial defect	A rare branchial arches and limb primordia development disorder with characteristics of variable degrees of uni or bilateral craniofacial malformation and radial defects that result in extremely variable phenotypic manifestations. Characteristic features include low postnatal weight, short stature, vertebral defects, hearing loss, and facial dysmorphism (including facial asymmetry, external, middle and inner ear malformations, orofacial clefts, and mandibular hypoplasia). These features are invariably associated with radial defects, such as preaxial polydactyly, thumb and/or radius hypoplasia/agenesis, or triphalangeal thumb. Cardiac, pulmonary, renal, and central nervous system involvement has also been reported.
fryn syndrome	A rare syndrome inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It is characterized by the presence of diaphragmatic defects, distinctive facial features (hypertelorism, low-set ears, flat nasal bridge, and micrognathia), distal digital hypoplasia, lung hypoplasia, and brain, gastrointestinal, and cardiovascular malformations.
hypertelorism microtia facial clefting syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of the combination of hypertelorism, cleft lip and palate and microtia. Nine cases have been reported in the literature in seven families. Some patients have associated cardiac or renal congenital malformations. Short stature and intellectual deficiency are common. The reported cases support autosomal recessive inheritance.
erythrokeratoderma en cocardes	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
common atrioventricular canal	A congenital heart defect characterized by a specific combination of heart defects with a common atrioventricular valve, primum atrial septal defect and inlet ventricular septal defect. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:16722604]
webbing of neck	A congenital, usually bilateral, thick web-like fold of skin that extends from the acromion to the mastoid process. This deformity is associated with Turner Syndrome and Noonan Syndrome.
brachydactyly	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
port stain wine	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
adactylia	The absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues. [PMID:19125433]
low-set ears	Upper insertion of the ear to the scalp below an imaginary horizontal line drawn between the inner canthi of the eye and extending posteriorly to the ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
small teeth	Decreased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD below mean. Alternatively, an apparently decreased maximum width of tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
high arched palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
fundus coloboma	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
congenital vertical talus	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
feet pes rockerbottom foot	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
rocker bottom feet	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
digitalized thumb	A thumb with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. Thus, this term applies if the thumb has an accessory phalanx, leading to a digit like appearance of the thumb. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
triphalangy of thumb	A thumb with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. Thus, this term applies if the thumb has an accessory phalanx, leading to a digit like appearance of the thumb. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
treacher collins syndrome	A hereditary disorder occurring in two forms: the complete form (Franceschetti's syndrome) is characterized by antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures, COLOBOMA of the lower lid, MICROGNATHIA and hypoplasia of the ZYGOMATIC ARCHES, and CONGENITAL MICROTIA. It is transmitted as an autosomal trait. The incomplete form (Treacher Collins syndrome) is characterized by the same anomalies in less pronounced degree. It occurs sporadically, but an autosomal dominant mode of transmission is suspected. (Dorland, 27th ed)
clastothrix	Trichorrhexis nodosa is the formation of nodes along the hair shaft through which breakage readily occurs. It is thus a focal defect in the hair fiber that is characterized by thickening or weak points (nodes) that cause the hair to break off easily. The result is defective, abnormally fragile hair. [HPO:curators]
saddle nose	Nasal ridge curving posteriorly to an imaginary line that connects the nasal root and tip. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152422]
weaver-smith syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene, and rarely mutations in the NSD1 gene. It is characterized by advanced bone age, foot deformities, permanently bent joints, macrocephaly, flattened back of the head, a broad forehead, hypertelorism, large, low-set ears, micrognathia, delayed development of motor skills, and mild intellectual disability.
meckel syndrome	A rare, lethal, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypoplasia, central nervous system malformations, and hepatic malformations.
miller-dieker syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
prader-willi syndrome and diabetes	Spojení diabetes mellitus se syndromem Prader-Williho.
fetal akinesia-hypokinesia sequence	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder. It is characterized by arthrogryposis, facial anomalies, polyhydramnios, camptodactyly, intrauterine growth retardation, and pulmonary hypoplasia. Pulmonary hypoplasia is present in the vast majority of cases and is often the fatal component of this syndrome.
marshall's syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(XI) chain. The syndrome may be characterized by facial dysmorphism, cataracts, myopia, hearing loss, and short stature. Mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene are causative in Stickler syndrome, but the phenotype of Marshall syndrome is more mild.
rear syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
syndrome coffin lowry	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
escobar syndrome	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
spherophakia brachymorphia syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
peutz-jeghers small bowel hamartoma	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
bannayan-zonana syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
fifth digit syndrome	A rare genetic disorder with an undetermined pattern of inheritance affecting mostly females. Clinical signs at birth include recurrent respiratory infections, poor feeding, hypotonia, joint laxity and characteristic shortened fifth digits with hypoplastic or absent nails and craniofacial appearance: microcephaly, wide nose and lips, sparse scalp hair but thick eyebrows and eyelashes. The clinical course includes developmental delays in motor skills and speech with associated moderate mental retardation.
warfarin embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
craniofenestria	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
polymelia	Polymelia is a congenital anomaly, which is defined as the presence of accessory limbs attached to various body regions and could be classified as cephalomelia (extra-limb attached to the head), notomelia (extra-limb attached to the back bone), thoracomelia (extra-limb attached to the thorax), and pyromelia (extra-limb attached to the pelvis). [PMID:23814690]
congenital macrodactyly	A condition in which a finger or toe is larger than normal size secondary to excessive growth of the anatomical structures or abnormal accumulation of substances.
syndactyly of multiple digits	A rare anatomical malformation characterized by polydactyly (extra fingers or toes) and syndactyly (webbed fingers or toes).
split hand	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
main en griffe	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
radial dislocation	A dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint. [HPO:curators]
congenital pseudarthrosis of clavicle	The two portions of the clavicle (corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle) are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum, and a synovial membrane develops, resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically. Congenital pseudarthrosis of the clavicle generally presents as a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22295044]
congenital hand deformity absence	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
supernumerary carpal bones	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
congenital hip deformity	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
phocomelia of the lower limb	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
agenesis of femur	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
metatarsus primus varus	Angulation of the first metatarsal bone towards the midline. This is associated with angulation of the phalanges of the same toe away from the midline (HALLUX VALGUS).
tarsal coalition	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
congenital pseudoarthrosis of tibia	A condition characterized by non-union of the tibia, which is present at birth. It is usually associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.
bifid patella	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
morgagni's hernias	An anterior retrosternal or parasternal hernia that can result in the herniation of liver or intestines into the chest cavity. []
gastroschisis	A congenital defect with major fissure in the ABDOMINAL WALL lateral to, but not at, the UMBILICUS. This results in the extrusion of VISCERA. Unlike OMPHALOCELE, herniated structures in gastroschisis are not covered by a sac or PERITONEUM.
double outlet of left ventricle	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
uhl disease	Uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium, normal tricuspid valve, and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium. [PMID:10859296, PMID:16322929]
congenital hypoplasia of aortic arch	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
overriding aorta	An overriding aorta is a congenital heart defect where the aorta is positioned directly over a ventricular septal defect, instead of over the left ventricle. The result is that the aorta receives some blood from the right ventricle, which reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood. It is one of the four conditions of the Tetralogy of Fallot. The aortic root can be displaced toward the front (anteriorly) or directly above the septal defect, but it is always abnormally located to the right of the root of the pulmonary artery. The degree of override is quite variable, with 5-95% of the valve being connected to the right ventricle. [HPO:curators]
mendes da costa syndrome	An autosomal dominant skin disease characterized by transient and variable noninflammatory ERYTHEMA and hyperkeratosis. It has been associated with mutations in the genes that code for CONNEXINS. Erythrokeratodermia variabilis inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion has also been reported. Affected individuals often develop PALMOPLANTAR KERATODERMA.
nethertons syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
netherton's syndrome [ambiguous]	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
dyskeratosis congenita	A predominantly X-linked recessive syndrome characterized by a triad of reticular skin pigmentation, nail dystrophy and leukoplakia of mucous membranes. Oral and dental abnormalities may also be present. Complications are a predisposition to malignancy and bone marrow involvement with pancytopenia. (from Int J Paediatr Dent 2000 Dec;10(4):328-34) The X-linked form is also known as Zinsser-Cole-Engman syndrome and involves the gene which encodes a highly conserved protein called dyskerin.
acrokeratosis verruciformis of hopf	A rare genetic skin keratinization disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. It is characterized by numerous flesh-colored warty papules on the back of the hands, medial aspect of the feet, knees, and elbows.
naevus anaemicus	A congenital skin lesion characterized by irregular hypopigmented macules that coalesce to form plaques and occur particularly on the chest. It is generally present at birth or develops in the first days of life. It is more common in females. Diagnosis is confirmed by applying gentle friction to the lesion and the surrounding skin and checking that the erythema produced in the healthy skin does not appear in the hypopigmented lesion. This pale macule becomes more conspicuous when the lesion and its surroundings are rubbed. The margin of the naevus is ill-defined and consists of an archipelago of small anaemic spots. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
congenital anomaly of digestive system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
gi duplication	A spherical hollow structure with a smooth muscle coat, lined by a mucous membrane, and attached to any part of the gastrointestinal tract, from the base of the tongue to the anus. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21218094]
mulberry molar	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
twinning of teeth	The development of two teeth from a single tooth bud, leading to a larger fused tooth. [PMID:18167487]
megadontia	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
lateral peg-shaped teeth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
rostral crossbite	<p>Anterior crossbite</p>
caudal crossbite	<p>Posterior crossbite</p>
apertognathia	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
congenital abnormality of esophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
duplication of esophagus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the esophagus. The duplicated segment may by tubular or cystic.
gallbladder anomaly congenital nos	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of liver	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of pancreas	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
thyrolingual fistula	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
kidney malformation	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
double renal pelvis	A congenital abnormality of the kidney characterized by the presence of two separate pelvicocaliceal systems with a single or duplex ureter.
fusion of kidney	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
renotubular dysgenesis	A developmental defect characterized by absence or poor development of proximal renal tubules. [HPO:probinson]
hydroureter; congenital	Dilatation of the ureter caused by obstruction of urine flow that is present at birth.
congenital urethral valve	The presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra. [HPO:probinson]
patent urachus -retired-	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
intersex genitalia	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
fallopian tube duplication	The presence of a supernumerary Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23532389]
anomalies uterine	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterus; unicornate	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
uterus; rudimentary	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital vaginal septum	The presence of a vaginal septum, thereby creating a vaginal duplication. The septum is longitudinal in the majority of cases. [HPO:curators]
vagina; imperforate	Embryologic remnant consisting of a persistent connective tissue membrane within the vaginal vault.
labial agglutination	Synechia vulvae (adhesions of the labia minora) are characterized by a complete or partial fusion of the labia minora in the midline. [PMID:17364294, PMID:29262197]
testicular regression syndrome	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
testicular regression - embryonic	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
extra testes	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
atresia; vas deferens	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
brain; anomaly	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
macrogyrias	Pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1,5-3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm (radiological definition). See also neuropathological definitions for 2-, 3-, and 4-layered lissencephaly. [COST:neuromig, HPO:probinson, PMID:22427329]
broad gyri of cerebrum	Pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1,5-3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm (radiological definition). See also neuropathological definitions for 2-, 3-, and 4-layered lissencephaly. [COST:neuromig, HPO:probinson, PMID:22427329]
heterotopic notochordal tissue	A very rare, slow growing, usually asymptomatic hamartomatous lesion that arises from ectopic notochordal tissue. Morphologically it is characterized by the presence of typical physaliphorous cells in a myxoid background.
microcornea	A congenital abnormality of the cornea in which the cornea and the anterior segment of the eye are smaller than normal. The horizontal diameter of the cornea does not reach 10 mm even in adulthood. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; eyelid	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
potter facies	A facial appearance characteristic of a fetus or neonate due to oligohydramnios experienced in the womb, comprising ocular hypertelorism, low-set ears, receding chin, and flattening of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
cyclops	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
trap sequence	A condition which occurs in monozygotic twins in which one of the fetuses supplies the majority of the cardiac output to its co-twin through its umbilical artery. The recipient twin has only rudimentary organs and structure and is not viable.
placenta duplex	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
placenta circumvallata	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes that are folded along all or part of the disc perimeter. The amnion may or may not be included in the folded tissue.
placenta marginalis	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
placenta marginata	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
placenta marginal	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
abnormalities cord umbilical	An abnormality of the umbilical cord, which is the cord connecting the developing embryo or fetus to the placenta. [HPO:probinson]
marginal cord insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion at the disc edge.
velamentous cord insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
oculopharyngeal dystrophy	En autosomalt dominant, ärftlig sjukdom som debuterar sent i livet och vars kännetecken är sväljningssvårigheter och tilltagande ögonlocksnedfall. Mutationer i genen för poly(A)-bindande protein II har satts i samband med okulofaryngeal muskeldystrofi.
cornelia de langes syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
usher syndrome	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
growth hormone insensitivity syndrome	En autosomal, recessiv störning, kännetecknad av kort kroppsväxt, defekt tillväxthormonreceptor och oförmåga att producera insulinliknande tillväxtfaktor I från tillväxthormonet. Syndromet är inte en form av hypofysär dvärgväxt, utan beror på en mutation i GHR-genen på kromosom 5 hos människa.
pendred syndrome	A condition associated with reduced export of iodide across the apical membrane of the follicular cells of the thyroid gland that may progress to hypothyroidism. Pendred syndrome is associated with an increased risk of goiter and sensorineural hearing loss due to malformations of the inner ear (vestibular system). Inactivating mutations in the SLC26A4 gene encoding the pendrin transport protein are responsible for the condition.
eyelids stuck together	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
lateral periodontal; cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
bifid scrotum	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
corpus callosum hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the corpus callosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
cornea flattened	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic irides	Congenital underdevelopment of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
persistent; pupillary membrane	The presence of remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil. [HPO:probinson]
persistent pupillary membrane	The presence of remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil. [HPO:probinson]
congenital retinal fold	An area of the retina that is buckled so that a sector-shaped sheet of retina lies in front of the normal retina. This feature is of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
av - abnormal atrioventricular connection	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between atria and ventricles. [DDD:dbrown]
restrictive ventricular septal defect	Any ventricular septal defect (VSD) that is small enough to restrict flow across it such that a pressure gradient exists between the two sides of the VSD. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:10798413]
interrupted aortic arch type c	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the innominate and left carotid arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital aganglionic megacolon	A complete lack of ganglia in the intestine. This is an extremely severe form of Hirschsprung Disease.
anomalous liver lobulation	Formation of abnormal lobules (small masses of tissue) in the liver. [HPO:probinson]
morgagni hydatid cyst	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
diphallus	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
pelvic cake kidney	Ren discoides - ledvina koláčová (ren fungiformis, scutulatus) ledviny jsou srostlé celou mediální plochou ve společný okrouhlý útvar (obě ledviny splynuly v jediný orgán).
preaxial polydactyly	A form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the thumb or great toe. [HPO:probinson]
leg; hypoplasia	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
birt-hogg-dubé syndrome	Autosomal dominant neoplastic syndrome characterised by genodermatosis, lung cysts, spontaneous and recurrent PNEUMOTHORAX; and RENAL CANCER. It is associated with mutations in the folliculin protein gene (FLCN protein).
sc phocomelia syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
big lower jaw	Malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar (mesioclusion).
cbavd	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
deficient perineum	Shortened distance between anus and genital tubercle. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
morbidly adherent placentation	A condition in which the placenta implants abnormally into the uterine myometrium, rather than implanting into the uterine decidua basalis as is normal.
morbidly adherent placenta	A condition in which the placenta implants abnormally into the uterine myometrium, rather than implanting into the uterine decidua basalis as is normal.
walker-clodius syndrome	A rare form of ectodermal dysplasia, inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, manifesting with varying degrees of severity, ectrodactyly and cleft lip/palate.
hypodontia and nail dysplasia	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It is associated with mutations in the MSX-1 gene on chromosome 4 which alter ectodermal morphogenesis. Characteristic clinical signs include absent or poorly-formed dentition and brittle, spoon-shaped finger and toenails. Clinical course features an increased incidence of dental caries but is essentially benign.
kohlschutter syndrome	Ameliogenesis imperfecta, mental retardation, and epileptic seizures
rigid spine syndrome	An inherited muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the SEPN1 gene. It is characterized by severe limitation in flexion of the dorsolumbar and cervical spine, due to contracture of the spinal extensors. It leads to loss of movement of the spine and the thoracic cage.
xlmtm	An X-linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. Primarily it affects males. Female carriers are usually asymptomatic. It is characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and hypotonia. The muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe. Newborns with severe X-linked centronuclear myopathy develop respiratory distress which may lead to respiratory failure requiring constant ventilator assistance. Patients with mild X-linked centronuclear myopathy usually require ventilator support during the newborn period only.
hypotelorism of orbit	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
hypoplastic clavicles	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
parietal encephalocele	An encephalocele located between bregma and lambda. [DDD:awilkie, PMID:2773494]
corpus callosum atrophy	The presence of atrophy (wasting) of the corpus callosum. [HPO:sdoelken]
cortical dysplasia	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
facial paresis partial unilateral	Asymmetry observed in the face of a neonate or infant whose face appears symmetric at rest and asymmetric during crying as the mouth is pulled downward on one side while not moving on the other side. [HPO:cwright]
intrahepatic biliary atresia	A congenital disorder characterized by blockage or absence of the intrahepatic bile ducts.
bilateral cryptorchism	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral cryptorchidism	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
penis webbed	Ventral skinfold extending from penis to scrotum. [PMID:23650202]
abducted thumb	With the hand relaxed and the thumb in the plane of the palm, the axis of the thumb forms an angle of at least 90 degrees with the long axis of the hand. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
thumb brachydactyly	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
postaxial hand polydactyly	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand (that is, on the side with the fifth finger). [HPO:sdoelken]
postaxial polydactyly of fingers	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand (that is, on the side with the fifth finger). [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital overgrowth of lower limb	Overgrowth of only one leg. [HPO:probinson]
overgrowth of one leg	Overgrowth of only one leg. [HPO:probinson]
proximal focal femoral deficiency	Proximal femoral focal deficiency is a deformity manifested by hypoplasia of a variable portion of the femur with shortening of the entire limb. [PMID:21438051, PMID:23915863, UToronto:chum]
lobster claw foot	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
midline skull joint closes early	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the sagittal suture. [HPO:probinson]
vertebral segmentation defect	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
orbinsky syndrome	Congenital lack of development of the muscles, which are then replaced by a mixture of dense fat and fibrous tissue. [HPO:probinson, Neuromics:vstraub]
ichthyosis bullous type	An autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis characterized by generalized reddening of the skin (ERYTHEMA) and widespread blistering. The disease shows similar, but somewhat milder, clinical and histopathological findings to those in HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC and is associated with the gene that encodes KERATIN-2A.
fetal retinoid syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
thalidomide embryopathy	Fetal embryopathy associated with maternal thalidomide use during pregnancy characterized by phocomelia of one or all limbs, other limb defects such as thumb abnormalities, and other structural anomalies that may include facial hemangioma, esophageal and duodenal atresia, tetralogy of Fallot, renal agenesis, and anomalies of the external ear. Long term complications may include Moebius syndrome or autism.
foetal methotrexate syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
penis hypospadias penoscrotal	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
book's syndrome	Book syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome reported in a Swedish family (25 cases from 4 generations), and one isolated case. The syndrome has characteristics of premolar aplasia, hyperhidrosis, and premature graying of the hair. Additional features reported in the isolated case include a narrow palate, hypoplastic nails, eyebrow anomalies, a unilateral simian crease, and poorly formed dermatoglyphics.
howel-evans' syndrome	Forma de queratodermia palmoplantar difusa que se produce entre los 5 y los 15 años de edad y que podría asociarse con el desarrollo ulterior de cáncer de esófago
congenital deformity of nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
notched nail	A digit with two nails, with at least some soft tissue between them. [PMID:19125433]
accessory metacarpal bone	The presence of more than the normal number of metacarpal bones. [HPO:curators]
parachute deformity of mitral valve	Abnormality of the mitral valve apparatus, whereby chordae attach to a single papillary muscle or hypoplastic papillary muscles. [DDD:dbrown]
pentalogy of cantrell	Rare congenital deformity syndrome characterized by a combination of five anomalies as a result of neural tube defect. The five anomalies are a midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect (e.g., OMPHALOCELE), a lower STERNUM defect, a congenital intracardiac defect, an anterior DIAPHRAGM defect, and a diaphragmatic PERICARDIUM defect (e.g., PERICARDIAL EFFUSION). Variants with incomplete and variable combinations of the defects are known. ECTOPIA CORDIS; CLEFT LIP; and CLEFT PALATE are often associated with the syndrome.
reduced ossification of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
radial hypoplasia	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
shortening of radius	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
congenital campylodactyly	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
congenital camptodactyly	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
lung segmentation defects	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
muscular ventricular septal defect	The trabecular septum is the largest part of the interventricular septum. It extends from the membranous septum to the apex and superiorly to the infundibular septum. A defect in the trabecular septum is called muscular VSD if the defect is completely rimmed by muscle. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:17101870]
underdeveloped ovary	Developmental hypoplasia of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis	An abnormality characterized by thickening of the muscle in the wall of the pylorus. It results in the narrowing of the pyloric channel. The overlying mucosa may appear hypertrophic as well. Clinical signs and symptoms appear early in life and include projectile vomiting and dehydration.
acraniate monster	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
absent finger	Aplasia of one or more fingers. [HPO:curators]
upper limb; anomaly	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
faciocardiorenal syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, horseshoe kidney, and congenital heart defects. Four cases have been reported in the literature in two unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include plagiocephaly, malar hypoplasia, broad nasal bridge, poorly developed philtrum and nasal alae, cleft palate and hypodontia. Congenital heart defects were endocardial fibroelastosis in one family and prolapse of the tricuspid valve in the other. The condition is probably hereditary and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
aminopterin syndrome sine aminopterin	A developmental anomaly syndrome that resembles aminopterin embryopathy without history of exposure in utero to aminopterin. Main features include craniosynostosis, dysmorphic features including ocular hypertelorism, palpebral fissure anomalies, micrognathia cleft lip and/or high arched palate and small and low set/rotated ears.Limb anomalies include brachydactyly, syndactyly and clinodactyly. Also associated with mild-to-moderate intellectual deficit and short stature.
gomez lopez hernandez syndrome	Syndrome that may be classified among the neurocutaneous syndromes, associates abnormalities of the cerebellum (rhombencephalosynapsis), cranial nerves (trigeminal anesthesia), and scalp (alopecia). It has been reported in 11 individuals so far. Other features observed in patients were craniosynostosis, midfacial hypoplasia, bilateral corneal opacities, low-set ears, short stature, moderate intellectual impairment and ataxia. Hyperactivity, depression, self-injurious behavior and bipolar disorder have also been reported.
harrod doman keele syndrome	The association of intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism (a highly arched palate, pointed chin, and small mouth, hypotelorism, a long nose and large protruding ears), arachnodactyly, hypogenitalism (undescended testes and hypospadias) and failure to thrive. So far, it has been described in three males (including two brothers). An autosomal recessive mode of transmission has been suggested.
harrod syndrome	The association of intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism (a highly arched palate, pointed chin, and small mouth, hypotelorism, a long nose and large protruding ears), arachnodactyly, hypogenitalism (undescended testes and hypospadias) and failure to thrive. So far, it has been described in three males (including two brothers). An autosomal recessive mode of transmission has been suggested.
jackson-weiss syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by the premature fusion of the bones of the skull (craniosynostosis) and foot abnormalities. The craniosynostosis results in a malformed skull, widely spaced eyes, and a bulging forehead. The foot abnormalities consist of short and wide first toes, which bend away from the other toes. In addition, syndactyly in some toes may be present. The hands are almost always normal.
kabuki make-up syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene (also known as MLL2) or the KDM6A gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial features including arched eyebrows, long eyelashes, long palpebral fissures with the lower lids turned out at the outside edges, a flat nose, and large protruding earlobes, developmental delay and intellectual disability.
kapur toriello syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism, severe intellectual deficiency, cardiac and intestinal anomalies, and growth retardation. Only four cases have been reported in the literature, in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include bilateral cleft lip and palate, bulbous nasal tip and eye anomalies. The condition seems to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
peters anomaly-short limb dwarfism syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
lowry maclean syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of microcephaly, craniosynostosis, glaucoma, growth failure and visceral malformations. Only three cases have been reported in the literature in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include trigonocephaly, exotropia, cleft palate, beaked nose and low-set ears. All the affected patients have associated congenital visceral malformations including congenital heart defects, diaphragmatic hernia, genital or cerebral abnormalities. The demonstration of congenital glaucoma, hallmark of the syndrome, in the father of an affected patient, supports autosomal dominant inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
mcdonough syndrome	Belongs to the group of multiple congenital anomalies/mental retardation syndromes with intellectual deficit, distinctive facies (upward slanting palpebral fissures, squint), kyphoscoliosis, diastasis recti, cryptorchidism, and a congenital heart defect. Autosomal recessive inheritance suggested.
kelly syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of congenital microcephaly with facial dysmorphism (sloping forehead, prominent nose, mild retrognathia), moderate to severe, non-progressive intellectual disability and symmetrical digital malformations of variable degree, including brachydactyly of the fifth fingers with single flexion crease, clinodactyly, syndactyly, polydactyly and hallux valgus. Congenital anonychia and white cafe au lait-like spots on the skin of hands and feet are also associated. There is evidence this disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the RBBP8 gene on chromosome 18q11.2.
juberg hayward syndrome	A polymalformation syndrome that associates multiple skeletal anomalies with microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, urogenital anomalies and intellectual deficit.
orofaciodigital syndrome with retinal abnormality	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
syndrome w	W syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, epileptic seizures and facial dysmorphism. Skeletal anomalies are also often present. To date, it has been described in six male patients. The mode of transmission appears to be X-linked dominant.
primrose syndrome	A rare genetic intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of macrocephaly, hypotonia, dysmorphic facial features (wide forehead, ptosis, downslanting palpebral fissures, enlarged and calcified external ears, large jaw), sparse body hair and tall stature. Hearing loss, insulin-resistant diabetes, and progressive distal muscle wasting (leading to joint contractures) have also been reported in adulthood. Rare manifestations include hypothyroidism, cerebral calcification, ataxia and peripheral neuropathy. There is evidence this disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the ZBTB20 gene on chromosome 3q13.
proud syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of agenesis of the corpus callosum, mild to severe neurological manifestations (intellectual disability, developmental delay, epilepsy, dystonia), and urogenital anomalies (hypospadias, cryptorchidism, renal dysplasia, ambiguous genitalia). Additionally skeletal anomalies (limb contractures, scoliosis), dysmorphic facial features (large eyes, prominent supraorbital ridges, synophrys) and optic atrophy have been observed. The disease is caused by mutation in the ARX gene.
ccc dysplasia	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
acrocallosal syndrome	Autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by hypogenesis or agenesis of CORPUS CALLOSUM. Clinical features include MENTAL RETARDATION; CRANIOFACIAL ABNORMALITIES; digital malformations, and growth retardation.
spinocerebellar ataxia dysmorphism syndrome	Syndrome that is marked by characteristic facies associated with dysarthria, delayed psychomotor development, ataxia, scoliosis and foot deformities. Three cases have been described and transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
pashayan syndrome	A rare otorhinolaryngological malformation syndrome with characteristics of a distinctive mask-like facial dysmorphism, lacrimal duct obstruction, extrapyramidal features, digital malformations and intellectual disability. Reported in 3 families to date. The facies has a mask-like appearance due to weakness of facial muscles and lacrimal duct obstruction is characteristic. Clinical features also include telecanthus, bulky nose, broad nasal bridge, sometimes a hypoplastic midface, longitudinal cheek furrows, trapezoidal upper lip and malformation of the ears. Intellectual disability, cutaneous syndactyly, torsion dystonia, increased deep tendon reflexes; Babinski sign, poor coordination and joint laxity are also observed.
congenital suprabulbar paresis	A form of cerebral palsy with characteristics of congenital pseudobulbar (suprabulbar) paresis manifesting as selective weakness of the lips, tongue and soft palate, dysphagia, dysphonia, drooling and jaw jerking. Mean age at diagnosis is 6 years. The main clinical features are spasticity and limited movements around the mouth and throat from an early age, and brisk jaw jerks. Most cases are sporadic but several families with more than one affected member have been reported. Inheritance in these families appeared to follow an autosomal dominant pattern with variable expression and penetrance.
pettigrew syndrome	A rare, X-linked inherited syndrome characterized by mental retardation and additional features, which include choreoathetosis, hydrocephalus, Dandy-Walker malformation, seizures, and iron or calcium deposition in the brain.
wilson turner syndrome	A very rare X-linked multisystem genetic disease characterised by intellectual disability, truncal obesity, gynaecomastia, hypogonadism, dysmorphic facial features, and short stature. The syndrome has been described in two families to date. The syndrome has been linked to a mutation in the consensus donor splice site of the histone deacetylase 8 HDAC8 gene (Xq13). X-linked recessive transmission and X-linked dominant inheritance with absence of male-to-male transmission have been reported.
hughes syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of a progressively coarse acromegaloid-like facial appearance, thickening of the lips and intraoral mucosa, large and doughy hands and, in some cases, developmental delay. The syndrome appears to be part of a phenotypic spectrum that includes hypertrichotic osteochondrodysplasia, Cantu type and hypertrichosis-acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome.
acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of a progressively coarse acromegaloid-like facial appearance, thickening of the lips and intraoral mucosa, large and doughy hands and, in some cases, developmental delay. The syndrome appears to be part of a phenotypic spectrum that includes hypertrichotic osteochondrodysplasia, Cantu type and hypertrichosis-acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome.
bsg syndrome	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome, described in three boys from one family. The syndrome has characteristics of intellectual disability, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism, bifid uvula or partial cleft palate, multiple dental cysts, Schmorl nodes, fused cervical spinous processes, pectus excavatum, and penoscrotal hypospadias. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1971.
elsahy-waters syndrome	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome, described in three boys from one family. The syndrome has characteristics of intellectual disability, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism, bifid uvula or partial cleft palate, multiple dental cysts, Schmorl nodes, fused cervical spinous processes, pectus excavatum, and penoscrotal hypospadias. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1971.
porokeratosis mibelli	A clonal disorder of keratinization with one or multiple atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella. [HPO:skoehler]
incomplete ossification	A finding of partial or decreased ossification, as indicated by reduced stain uptake.
congenital partial portasystemic shunt	Congenital portal-systemic shunt in which at least some portal blood perfuses the liver
anomalous tooth number	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
mittendorf dot	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles	Congenital non-progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions. Typically, there is ptosis and variable degrees of restriction of horizontal and vertical eye movements. [HPO:probinson]
congenital miosis	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
placental abnormality	An abnormality of the placenta, the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange. [HPO:probinson]
marfanoid craniosynostosis syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited syndrome often caused by mutations in the SKI gene. It is characterized by premature fusion of skull bones and distinctive facial features, including a long, narrow head, hypertelorism, exophthalmos, downslanting palpebral fissures, a high, narrow palate, micrognathia, and low-set ears. The bodies of affected individuals resemble those of people with Marfan syndrome.
revesz debuse syndrome	A rare severe phenotypic variant of dyskeratosis congenita with onset in early childhood. The syndrome has features of dyskeratosis congenita (for example skin hyper/hypopigmentation, nail dystrophy, high risk of bone marrow failure and cancer, developmental delay sparse and fine hair) in conjunction with bilateral exudative retinopathy and intracranial calcifications.
wt limb blood syndrome	Syndrome is characterised by haematological anomalies (Fanconi anaemia, leukaemia and lymphoma) often appearing during childhood. Anomalies of the limbs and hands are also present: bifid or hypoplastic thumbs, cutaneous syndactyly and ulnar and radial defects. The syndrome has been described in several families. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
shabbir syndrome	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
schwannomatosis	A rare genetic disorder characterized by the presence of multiple schwannomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C6557" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C6557" NCI Thesaurus)
neurinomatosis	A rare genetic disorder characterized by the presence of multiple schwannomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C6557" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C6557" NCI Thesaurus)
orofaciodigital syndrome i	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
andersen-tawil syndrome	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
andersen cardiodysrhythmic periodic paralysis	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
andersen syndrome	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
vater syndrome	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
athabascan brainstem dysgenesis syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of deafness, central hypoventilation, congenital ocular paralysis and developmental retardation. Cardiac anomalies and paralysis of the vocal chords may also be present. Six cases have been reported so far. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
crisponi syndrome	A severe disorder with characteristics of muscular contractions at birth, intermittent hyperthermia, facial abnormalities and camptodactyly. Since the first description of the disease in 1996, it has been described in less than 30 patients from 13 Italian (mainly Sardinian) families. Extensive paroxysmal muscular contractions in the face (resembling neonatal tetanus) develop after minimal stimuli. All patients described to date displayed facial anomalies, including a large face, chubby cheeks, a broad nose with anteverted nostrils and long philtrum and bilateral camptodactyly. Early in the neonatal period continuous hyperthermia develops (unrelated to infectious agents). Mutations in the CRLF1 gene are causative. Belongs to a group of conditions with overlapping features, including cold-induced sweating syndromes and Stüve-Wiedemann syndrome. The disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
chitty hall baraitser syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of sensorineural deafness, short stature, femoral epiphyseal dysplasia, umbilical and inguinal hernias and developmental delay (growth retardation and mild intellectual deficit). It has been described in two brothers born to consanguineous parents. They also have dysmorphic features (triangular face, pointed chin) and bilateral obstruction of lacrimal ducts. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
bindewald ulmer muller syndrome	A rare disorder characterized by tetralogy of Fallot, minor facial anomalies, and severe intellectual deficiency and growth delay. Dysmorphic features include large, protruding, abnormally modeled ears and broad nasal root. Microcephaly and syndactyly of second and third toes have also been recorded. All patients have severe intellectual deficiency. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
otofaciocervical syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of distinct facial features (long triangular face, broad forehead, narrow nose and mandible, high arched palate), prominent, dysmorphic ears (low-set and cup-shaped with large conchae and hypoplastic tragus, antitragus and lobe), long neck, preauricular and/or branchial fistulas and/or cysts, hypoplastic cervical muscles with sloping shoulders and clavicles, winged, low, and laterally-set scapulae, hearing impairment and mild intellectual deficit. Vertebral defects and short stature may also be associated.
orofaciodigital syndrome x	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
orofaciodigital syndrome with fibular aplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
schilbach rott syndrome	An autosomal dominant dysmorphic disorder with characteristics hypotelorism, blepharophimosis, facial asymmetry, small posteriorly angulated ears, a long prominent nose, a small mouth and an array of cleft palate abnormalities. Cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers and toes is a recurrent manifestation. Affected individuals often have a short stature and may present with a mild intellectual disability or learning difficulties. Hypospadias is frequently reported in males. Transmission is autosomal dominant with variable expressivity.
westerhof beemer cormane syndrome	A neurocutaneous syndrome with characteristics of congenital hypomelanotic and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules. It has been described in individuals spanning three generations of an Indian family. Some of the patients also had retarded growth and intellectual deficit.
buschke fischer brauer syndrome	A very rare hereditary skin disease with manifestation of irregularly distributed epidermal hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. Reported in 35 families worldwide to date. The lesions usually start to develop in early adolescence but can also present later in life. Mutations in the AAGAB gene (15q22.33-q23) have recently been identified as one of the causes. Mutations in the COL14A1 gene (8q23) have also been identified as causal in some cases in Asia that seem to have a similar phenotype
palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness	A keratinization disorder characterized by focal or diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma. A patchy distribution is observed with accentuation on the thenar, hypothenar and the arches of the feet. The disease becomes apparent in infancy and is associated with sensorineural hearing loss that shows a variable age of onset. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner with incomplete penetrance. Caused by heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding connexin-26 (GJB2; 121011) on chromosome 13q12.
branchiogenic deafness syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome, described in one family to date, with characteristics of branchial cysts or fistula, ear malformations, congenital hearing loss (conductive, sensorineural, and mixed), internal auditory canal hypoplasia, strabismus, trismus, abnormal fifth fingers, vitiliginous lesions, short stature and mild learning disability. Renal and urethral abnormalities are absent.
pierson syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation(s) in the LAMB2 gene, encoding laminin subunit beta-2. It is characterized by congenital nephrotic syndrome with diffuse mesangial sclerosis and distinct ocular abnormalities.
meacham winn culler syndrome	A multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of congenital diaphragmatic abnormalities, genital defects and cardiac malformations. Less than 15 patients have been reported worldwide. Ambiguous or female external genitalia are present in individuals with 46,XY karyotype. The genital abnormalities are variable and may include a true double vagina or septate vagina, absent uterus, abnormal male gonads in the presence of normal external female genitalia or male pseudohermaphroditism with abnormal internal female genitalia. Complex cyanotic congenital heart defects, (hypoplastic right lungs, anomalous pulmonary venous return and abnormalities of the diaphragm) are frequent. One patient with rhabdomyomatous dysplasia of the lungs has been reported. Mutations in the WT1 gene have been identified in some patients with Meacham syndrome. All patients reported to date died in early childhood.
meacham syndrome	A multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of congenital diaphragmatic abnormalities, genital defects and cardiac malformations. Less than 15 patients have been reported worldwide. Ambiguous or female external genitalia are present in individuals with 46,XY karyotype. The genital abnormalities are variable and may include a true double vagina or septate vagina, absent uterus, abnormal male gonads in the presence of normal external female genitalia or male pseudohermaphroditism with abnormal internal female genitalia. Complex cyanotic congenital heart defects, (hypoplastic right lungs, anomalous pulmonary venous return and abnormalities of the diaphragm) are frequent. One patient with rhabdomyomatous dysplasia of the lungs has been reported. Mutations in the WT1 gene have been identified in some patients with Meacham syndrome. All patients reported to date died in early childhood.
scott bryant graham syndrome	Syndrome with manifestations of syndactyly of the fingers and toes, characteristic facies (startled facial expression with a small pointed nose, micrognathia, long dark eyelashes and prominent eyebrows) and intellectual deficit. Less than 10 cases have been described in the literature so far. Abnormal dermatoglyphic patterns, growth retardation and brachycephaly have also been reported. Transmission appears to be autosomal or X-linked recessive.
scarf syndrome	Syndrome with the association of skeletal abnormalities, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, psychomotor retardation and facial abnormalities. So far, it has been described in two males (maternal first cousins). The mode of inheritance was suggested to be X-linked recessive.
single midline maxillary incisor	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
ice syndrome	This syndrome has features of ichthyosis, prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows. It has been described in several individuals from four generations of one family. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
king-denborough syndrome	A rare genetic non-dystrophic myopathy with characteristics of the triad of congenital myopathy, dysmorphic features and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. Patients present with a wide phenotypic range, including delayed motor development, muscle weakness and fatigability, ptosis and myopathic facies (with or without creatine kinase elevations), skeletal abnormalities (short stature, scoliosis, kyphosis, lumbar lordosis and pectus carinatum/excavatum), mild dysmorphic facial features (hypertelorism, down-slanting palpebral fissures, epicanthic folds, low set ears, micrognathia), webbing of the neck, cryptorchidism, and a susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia and/or rhabdomyolysis due to intensive physical strain, viral infection or statin use.
bencze syndrome	A malformation syndrome involving the abnormal growth of the facial skeleton as well as its soft tissue structure and organs. The syndrome has characteristics of mild facial asymmetry with unaffected neurocranium and eyeballs, along with esotropia, amblyopia and/or convergent strabismus and occasionally submucous cleft palate. Transmission is autosomal dominant. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1979.
glomuvenous malformations	Hereditary vascular malformations featuring the presence of small, multifocal bluish-purple venous lesions involving the skin. May be present at birth, and slowly expand during childhood. New small lesions appear with time. Often painful on palpation and cannot be completely emptied by compression. They are usually multifocal and are located mainly on the extremities, involving the skin and subcutis. Caused by mutations in the gene encoding glomulin and inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
chacs	An extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of premature loss of curly, brittle, dry hair, premature loss of teeth due to caries, nail dystrophy with thickening of the finger and toe-nails, acral keratoderma and hypohidrosis. Additionally, sparse eyebrows and eyelashes, receding frontal hairline and flattened malar region are associated. The severity of features appears to increase with age.
andre syndrome	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
opd - otopalatodigital syndrome	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
catel manzke syndrome	A rare bone disease with anomaly of both index fingers (accessory ossicle at the metacarpophalangeal joint with resulting ulnar deviation) and typically in association with Pierre Robin sequence comprising micrognathia, cleft palate and glossoptosis. In 80% of cases, the digital abnormality is associated with Pierre Robin sequence. Additional frequently reported congenital malformations include cardiac defects such as ventricular septal defect and interatrial communication. Homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations in TGDS (13q32.1) have been implicated as causal in this syndrome. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Genetic counseling is recommended.
branchial arch syndrome x-linked	An extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that has characteristics of microcephaly, malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures, highly arched palate, apparently low-set and protruding ears, micrognathia, short stature, bilateral hearing loss, and learning disability. Occasionally, additional features have been observed such as bilateral cryptorchidism, cardiac valvular lesions, body asymmetry, and pectus excavatum.
amme complex	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of Alport syndrome, midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit and elliptocytosis. It has been described in two families. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked trait is caused by a contiguous gene deletion in Xq22.3 involving several genes including COL4A5, FACL4 and AMMECR1.
neuroectodermal dysplasia chime type	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome to date described in 8 cases. The syndrome has characteristics of early-onset migratory ichthyosiform dermatosis, bilateral ocular coloboma, conductive hearing loss, seizures, intellectual disability and characteristic facial features. Ears are low-set with thick over-folded helices. Teeth are widely spaced and square in shape. Less constant findings are cleft palate or a less severe equivalent, cardiac defects, pectus excavatum and supernumerary nipples. Caused by mutations in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol gene PIGL located to 17p12-p11.2. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
chime	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome to date described in 8 cases. The syndrome has characteristics of early-onset migratory ichthyosiform dermatosis, bilateral ocular coloboma, conductive hearing loss, seizures, intellectual disability and characteristic facial features. Ears are low-set with thick over-folded helices. Teeth are widely spaced and square in shape. Less constant findings are cleft palate or a less severe equivalent, cardiac defects, pectus excavatum and supernumerary nipples. Caused by mutations in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol gene PIGL located to 17p12-p11.2. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
white forelock with malformations syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of poliosis, distinct facial features (epicanthal folds, hypertelorism, posterior rotation of ears, prominent philtrum, high-arched palate) and congenital anomalies/malformations of the eye (blue sclera), cardiopulmonary (atrial septal defect, prominent thoracic and abdominal veins) and skeletal (clinodactyly, syndactyly of the fingers and second and third toes) systems. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1980.
white forelock with malformations	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of poliosis, distinct facial features (epicanthal folds, hypertelorism, posterior rotation of ears, prominent philtrum, high-arched palate) and congenital anomalies/malformations of the eye (blue sclera), cardiopulmonary (atrial septal defect, prominent thoracic and abdominal veins) and skeletal (clinodactyly, syndactyly of the fingers and second and third toes) systems. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1980.
retinal detachment and occipital encephalocoele	Knobloch syndrome is defined by vitreoretinal and macular degeneration, and occipital encephalocele. The disease has characteristics of early-onset severe myopia (usually becoming apparent in the first year of life), vitreoretinal degeneration with retinal detachment, macular abnormalities, and midline encephalocele (mainly in the occipital region). The syndrome is clinically and genetically heterogeneous with three forms, KNO1, KNO2 and KNO3, being defined. KNO1 is caused by inactivating mutations in the collagen XVIII/endostatin gene (COL18A1) mapped to 21q22.3. The KNO2 form was defined when linkage to the KNO1 locus was excluded in a family reported from New Zealand. Recently, a novel type of KS (KNO3) was mapped to chromosome 17q11.2. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
bonneau syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of polysyndactyly, hexadactyly (duplication of the first toe) and complex cardiac malformation (including atrial and ventricular septal defect, single ventricle, aortic dextroposition, or dilation of the right heart). It has been described in six patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations were present in some patients (i.e. facial dysmorphism, hepatic cysts).
ppt syndrome	A very rare dysmorphic syndrome described in two siblings. The syndrome has characteristics of short stature, unique facies, enamel hypoplasia, progressive joint stiffness, high-pitched voice, cup-shaped ears and narrow palpebral fissures with epicanthal folds and intellectual deficit.
pelviscapular dysplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of pelviscapular dysplasia with epiphyseal abnormalities, congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism. The facial dysmorphism has manifestations of frontal bossing, hypertelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, deep-set eyes, strabismus, low-set posteriorly rotated and malformed ears, dysplasia of conchae, a small chin, a short neck with redundant skin folds, and a low hairline. Intelligence may vary from normal to moderately impaired. Radiographic features comprise aplasia of the body of the scapula, hypoplasia of the iliac bone, humeroradial synostosis, dislocation of the femoral heads, and moderate brachydactyly. Mutations in the TBX15 gene have been identified as potentially causative. Pelviscapular dysplasia is phenotypically similar to pelvis-shoulder dysplasia.
raine syndrome	A rare disorder defined by generalised osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation, characteristic facial dysmorphism, brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications, and neonatal lethal course. Mutations in the FAM20C gene have a causative role in lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
omphalocele cleft palate syndrome lethal	Syndrome with the association of omphalocele and cleft palate. It has been described in three daughters of normal unrelated parents. They were all diagnosed at birth. This syndrome is likely to be inherited as an autosomal recessive condition.
nathalie syndrome	Nathalie syndrome has characteristics of deafness, cataract, muscular atrophy, skeletal abnormalities, growth retardation, underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics and electrocardiographic abnormalities. It has been described in a Dutch family: in three sisters (one named Nathalie) and their brother.
erythrokeratodermia with ataxia	Disease with characteristics of papulosquamous, ichthyosiform plaques on the limbs appearing shortly after birth and later manifestations including progressive ataxia, dysarthria, nystagmus and decreased reflexes. Reported in 25 members of one French-Canadian family to date. Due to a mutation in the ELOVL4 gene (6q14).
deafness craniofacial syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of congenital hearing loss and facial dysmorphism (facial asymmetry, a broad nasal root and small nasal alae). It has been described in two members (father and daughter) of one Jewish family. Temporal alopecia was also noted. Transmission appeared to be autosomal dominant.
cyprus facial neuromusculoskeletal syndrome	The syndrome has been described in a single Greek Cypriot family, over three generations. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992. Affected individuals have a striking facial appearance (described as Mephistophelian) and variable skeletal deformities and neuromuscular abnormalities. The facial appearance consists of a thickened, ridged, triangular skin fold extending from the glabella to the anterior fontanelle, elevation of the medial portion of the eyebrows bilaterally, hypertelorism, low-set ears, posteriorly rotated ears and widow's peak. Musculoskeletal features may coexist and include congenital kyphoscoliosis, hip dislocation, congenital talipes equinovarus and arthrogryposis. Neurological and musculoskeletal defects are severe and incapacitating in some affected family members, while all have normal intelligence. The cause of this syndrome is not known.
dundar acropectoral syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of a combination of distal limb abnormalities (syndactyly of all fingers and toes, preaxial polydactyly in the feet and/or hands) and upper sternum malformations. It has been described in 22 patients from a six-generation Turkish family. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait and the causative gene is located at 7q36.
wiedemann steiner syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of short stature, hypertrichosis cubiti, facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, long eyelashes, thick eyebrows, downslanted, vertically narrow, long palpebral fissures, wide nasal bridge, broad nasal tip, long philtrum), developmental delay and mild to moderate intellectual disability. It has a variable clinical phenotype with additional manifestations reported including muscular hypotonia, patent ductus arteriosus, small hands and feet, hypertrichosis on the back and seizures. There is evidence the disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MLL gene on chromosome 11q23.
kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor retardation, microcephaly, up-slanting palpebral fissures, eye abnormalities (microcornea, strabismus, myopia, optic atrophy), high-arched palate, preauricular skin tags and micrognathia with respiratory distress. Other anomalies can be present and include long thin hands and feet, ambiguous genitalia, hypertelorism. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the UBE3B gene (608047) on chromosome 12q24.
oculocerebrofacial syndrome kaufman type	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor retardation, microcephaly, up-slanting palpebral fissures, eye abnormalities (microcornea, strabismus, myopia, optic atrophy), high-arched palate, preauricular skin tags and micrognathia with respiratory distress. Other anomalies can be present and include long thin hands and feet, ambiguous genitalia, hypertelorism. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the UBE3B gene (608047) on chromosome 12q24.
self-healing collodion baby	A minor variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis with manifestation of a collodion membrane at birth that heals within the first weeks of life. The exact prevalence is unknown. Approximately 25 cases have been reported in the literature. After the shedding of the membrane, patients present with mild scaling. Caused by mutations in the TGM1, ALOXE3 or ALOX12B genes encoding respectively transglutaminase 1, involved in the cornification of the stratum corneum, and arachidonate 3 and 12(R) lipoxygenases involved in lipid metabolism. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
bamforth lazarus syndrome	A very rare syndrome of congenital hypothyroidism with characteristics of thyroid dysgenesis, cleft palate and spiky hair, with or without choanal atresia, and bifid epiglottis. Facial dysmorphism and porencephaly have been reported in isolated cases. Only 8 patients from 6 families have been reported to date. Newborns present at birth with thyroid dysgenesis (in most cases athyreosis) leading to congenital hypothyroidism that manifests with lethargy, poor feeding, macroglossia, cold or mottled skin, persistent jaundice and umbilical hernia. All newborns have a cleft palate and spiky hair. The syndrome is due to homozygous loss-of-function missense mutations located within the forkhead domain of the FOXE1 gene (9q22), encoding thyroid transcription factor 2 (TTF-2). TTF-2 is expressed in the thyroid gland (as well as elsewhere like the tongue, epiglottis and palate) and is thought to play a crucial role in thyroid morphogenesis. The disease is inherited autosomal recessively.
fuhrmann syndrome	This syndrome has main characteristics of bowing of the femora, aplasia or hypoplasia of the fibulae and poly, oligo and syndactyly. It has been reported in 11 patients. Most of the patients also had a hypoplastic pelvis and hypoplasia of the fingers and fingernails. Some had congenital dislocation of the hip, absence or fusion of tarsal bones, absence of various metatarsals and hypoplasia and aplasia of the toes. The syndrome is caused by a partial loss of WNT7A function (gene mapped to 3p25).
aarskog-like syndrome	A very rare syndrome including short stature, facial dysmorphism, hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum. It has been observed in 16 subjects from five distantly related sibships of a large Kuwaiti Bedouin tribe. The affected patients had no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia	Lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia is an extremely rare polymalformative syndrome. It was described only once, in 1975, in 3 affected males in a sibship of 13, from second-cousin parents. Patients were all of low birth weight, had microretrognathia, microstomia, and microglossia, hypoplasia of the radius and ulna with radial deviation of the hands, simian creases and hypoplasia of fingers I and V, hypoplasia of the fibula and tibia with talipes and wide space between toes I and II, and severe malformation of the left heart which may have been responsible for death of all 3 in the first week or so of life.
eem syndrome	Syndrome with the association of ectodermal dysplasia, ectrodactyly, and macular dystrophy. So far, it has been described in individuals from seven families. Hypotrichosis, dental anomalies and absent eyebrows have also been reported. Appears to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and may be caused by mutations in the cadherin-3 gene (CH3, 16q22.1).
dyssegmental dysplasia	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia and lethal form of neonatal short-limbed dwarfism, with characteristics of anisospondyly, severe short stature and limb shortening, metaphyseal flaring and distinct dysmorphic features (flat facial appearance, abnormal ears, short neck, narrow thorax). Additional features may include other skeletal findings (for example joint contractures, bowed limbs, talipes equinovarus) and urogenital and cardiovascular abnormalities.
dk phocomelia syndrome	A very rare disorder with phocomelia of upper limbs, encephalocele, variable brain anomalies, urogenital abnormalities and thrombocytopenia. Less than 15 cases have been reported. The spectrum of upper limb defects varies from radial agenesis and phocomelia to amelia. A meningoencephalocele is constant. The intellectual development may be normal. Pathogenesis and cause of this syndrome are unknown. Parental consanguinity reported in a family suggests an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
dermatoosteolysis kirghizian type	Disease with characteristics of recurrent skin ulceration, arthralgia, fever, peri-articular osteolysis, oligodontia and nail dystrophy. This disease has been described in five siblings in a family of Kirghizian origin (Central Asia). Three of the siblings also presented with keratitis leading to visual impairment or blindness. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
temtamy syndrome	A very rare congenital genetic neurological disorder with characteristics of agenesis/hypoplasia of corpus callosum with developmental abnormalities, ocular disorders and variable craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities. Most reported families have multiple cases of Temtamy syndrome and almost all affected individuals are from consanguineous unions. The main clinical findings are dysmorphic facies, hypotonia, moderate to severe intellectual disability, intractable seizures and autistic features such as absent language or stereotypy. Motor and cognitive delay usually manifests in early childhood. The pathogenesis of Temtamy syndrome is not known. Various mutations (homozygous, missense, compound heterozygous) in the C12orf57 gene (12p13.31) have been reported in affected patients. Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
crane-heise syndrome	A very rare syndrome characterised by poorly mineralised calvarium, facial dysmorphism, vertebral abnormalities and absent clavicles. Nine cases have been reported in the literature so far. Dysmorphic features include micrognathia, cleft palate, hypertelorism and upturned nares. Clavicular aplasia is constant and agenesis of cervical vertebral bodies is frequent. Intra uterine growth retardation is constant. It is most likely that the condition is hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor, the syndrome is almost always lethal soon after birth.
craniosynostosis boston type	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of highly variable craniosynostosis with frontal bossing, turribrachycephaly and cloverleaf skull anomaly. Hypoplasia of the supraorbital ridges, cleft palate, extra teeth and limb anomalies has also been described. Associated problems include headache, poor vision, and seizures. Intelligence is normal.
ectodermal dysplasia skin fragility syndrome	A suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterized by generalized superficial erosions and less commonly blistering. Prevalence is unknown but 11 cases have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth with skin blistering and generalized erythema which rapidly regresses. The disease is due to mutations in the PKP1 (1q32) gene encoding plakophilin-1. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
loricrin keratoderma	A diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma with manifestation of honeycomb palmoplantar hyperkeratosis associated with pseudoainhum of the fifth digit of the hand, ichthyosis and deafness.Follows an autosomal dominant mode of transmission.
cleft limb heart malformation syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of multiple skeletal malformations (short femora and humeri, bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet, bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligo/polysyndactyly, deformed lumbosacral spine), congenital heart disease (truncus arteriosus), lung and urogenital malformations (bilateral bilobar lungs, horseshoe kidney, cryptorchidism), and facial malformations (bilateral cleft lip and palate, micrognathia, small, low-set ears without external meatus). It is lethal in the neonatal period. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
heart defects limb shortening	Heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia (including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs). It has been described only once in the literature, in two male siblings from Kuwaiti first cousins. The clinical and radiological features of these patients were reported as a distinct cardio-skeletal syndrome.
tel hashomer camptodactyly syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of camptodactyly, muscle hypoplasia and weakness, skeletal anomalies, facial dysmorphism and abnormal dermatoglyphics. Dysmorphic features include facial asymmetry, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, long philtrum and a small mouth. Winging scapulae, scoliosis, syndactyly and clinodactyly are commonly observed. The affected patients usually have normal mental development. The molecular basis of the syndrome has not yet been elucidated.
arthrogryposis with hyperkeratosis	An arthrogryposis syndrome described in two siblings to date with the association of multiple congenital joint contractures (of the large joints, fingers and toes) and hyperkeratosis (i.e. thick, scaling and fissured skin) and death occurring in early infancy. There have been no further reports in the literature since 1993.
illum syndrome	An extremely rare type of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita with the combination of multiple joint contractures with movement limitation and microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth that may cause feeding, swallowing and speech difficulties, a distinctive expressionless facies, severe developmental delay, central and autonomous nervous system dysfunction, occasionally Pierre-Robin sequence and lethality generally occurring during the first months of life.
pagod syndrome	PAGOD syndrome is a severe developmental syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital anomalies including cardiovascular defects, pulmonary hypoplasia, diaphragmatic defects and genital anomalies. Since the first publication in 1991, only 11 patients have been described. Neonates with PAGOD syndrome present with several visceral anomalies: hypoplasia of right or left lung, diaphragmatic hernia, omphalocele, various cardiac anomalies including, amongst others atrial septal defect, left ventricular hypoplasia or ventricular septal defect and great vessels anomalies such as aortic hypoplasia and pulmonary artery hypoplasia or atresia. Cardiac and mediastinal structures may be in dextroposition. Ambiguous external genitalia can be observed in some cases and all patient's present gonadal agenesis or hypoplasia and developmental anomalies of Wolffian and Mullerian duct structures. Vitamin A deficiency has been suggested to play a role in the development of the syndrome. Almost all cases are sporadic.
acrorenal mandibular syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of limb deficiencies and renal anomalies that include split hand-split foot malformation, renal agenesis, polycystic kidneys, uterine anomalies and severe mandibular hypoplasia.
stratton-parker syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of wormian bones, dextrocardia and short stature due to a growth hormone deficiency. Additional manifestations that have been reported include brachycamptodactyly, kidney hypoplasia, bilateral cryptorchidism, midshaft hypospadias, imperforate anus/anorectal agenesis, body asymmetry, mild developmental delay, hemimegalencephaly and facial dysmorphism, such as hypotelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, low-set and posteriorly angulated ears, depressed nasal bridge and microstomia.
anterior segment developmental abnormality	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
cooks syndrome	A rare malformation syndrome affecting the apical structures of digits and presenting with hypo/aplasia of nails and distal phalanges. Cooks syndrome is congenital and presents with hypo/anonychia, small or absent distal phalanges and digitalization of the thumbs. Usually, the nails of digits 1-3 are progressively deformed, with anonychia congenita totalis in the digits 4-5 and in all toes. Additional features include hypoplasia of the distal phalanges in digits 2-4 with absence of the distal phalanx of digit 5. In the feet, there is absence of all distal phalanges of digits 2-5 with hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of digit 1.
aniridia and absent patella	A syndrome described in three members of a family (a boy, his father and his paternal grandmother) with the association of aniridia and patella aplasia or hypoplasia. The grandmother also had bilateral cataracts and glaucoma. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1975.
koolen-de vries syndrome	A chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay, childhood hypotonia, facial dysmorphism, and friendly/amiable behavior. Abnormal hair pigmentation and texture is also frequent. Short stature, pectus excavatum, spine anomalies, dislocation of the hip, long slender fingers and slender lower limbs, and positional deformities of the hands/feet have also been reported. In all patients, global psychomotor developmental delay is noted from an early age. The recurrent 17q21.31 deletion encompasses at least six genes: C17orf69, CRHR1, IMP5, MAPT, STH and KIAA1267.
craniomicromelic syndrome	A very rare disorder with characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, under-ossification of the skull with large fontanelles, short limbs with absent phalanges and finger and toe syndactyly. Only 4 cases have been reported in the literature in 3 unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include narrow face with small palpebral fissures, small pointed nose, microstomia, micrognathia and low-set and posteriorly rotated ears. A posterior encephalocele and other congenital malformations can be observed. Prognosis is poor.
klick syndrome	An inherited epidermal disorder with characteristics of palmoplantar keratoderma, linear hyperkeratotic papules on the flexural side of large joints (cord-like distribution around wrists, in antecubital and popliteal folds), hyperkeratotic plaques (on neck, axillae, elbows, wrists, and knees), mild ichthyosiform scaling, and sclerotic constrictions around fingers that present flexural deformities. The disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the POMP gene.
tidand	A rare type of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) with missing functional T-cells. The disease affects growth of the hair and nails. Affected individuals have no scalp hair, eyebrows, or eyelashes and the nails are often ridged, pitted, or abnormally curved. The disease results from mutations in the FOXN1 gene which prevents cells from making any functional FOXN1 protein.
thurston syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome v	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
shone syndrome	A congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the presence of subvalvar left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, coarctation of the aorta, and mitral stenosis.
agyria	A congenital abnormality of the cerebral hemisphere characterized by lack of gyrations (convolutions) of the cerebral cortex. Agyria is defined as cortical regions lacking gyration with sulci great than 3 cm apart and cerebral cortex thicker than 5 mm. [COST:neuromig]
hidden ear	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
ebspa	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterised by generalised severe blistering with widespread congenital absence of skin and pyloric atresia. Prevalence is unknown, but at least 12 families have been reported to date. Onset is at birth and babies are usually born prematurely with a low weight and poor general condition. Most cases are due to mutations in the PLEC gene (8q24) encoding the plectin 1 protein. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
alveolar capillary dysplasia	A rare lethal congenital abnormality that refers to the abnormal development of the capillaries around the alveoli in the lung parenchyma. It manifests as respiratory distress and persistent pulmonary hypertension in infancy.
star syndrome	Syndrome with the association of toe syndactyly, facial dysmorphism including telecanthus and a broad nasal tip, urogenital malformations and anal atresia. Around ten cases have been reported so far. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the FAM58A gene (located on the X chromosome) encoding a protein of unknown function.
tmbts	A rare developmental anomaly syndrome with characteristics of severe intellectual disability and distal hypoplasia of digits, particularly of thumbs and halluces, with nail aplasia or hypoplasia. Facial dysmorphism with a pseudo-myopathic appearance has been reported, which may include high anterior hairline or low frontal hairline with central cowlick, flat forehead, ptosis, hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds, ears with thick helices, broad depressed nasal bridge with anteverted nares, short columella, long philtrum, high-arched palate, broad mouth with thick vermilion border of the upper or the lower lip and downturned corners. Marked hypotonia, seizures and global developmental delay have been reported, associated with autistic spectrum disorder manifestations in some patients.
serkal	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
orofaciodigital syndrome vi	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
varadi syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
otodental syndrome with coloboma	A contiguous gene syndrome comprising otodental syndrome (globodontia and sensorineural high-frequency hearing deficit) associated with eye abnormalities typically including iris and chorioretinal coloboma and sometimes microcornea, microphthalmos, lenticular opacity, lens coloboma and iris pigment epithelial atrophy.
clapo	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
nijmegen breakage syndrome-like disorder	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome characterised by growth retardation, short stature, developmental delay, intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism (severe microcephaly, sloping forehead, prominent eyes, broad nasal ridge, hypoplastic nasal septum, epicanthal folds), spontaneous chromosomal instability, cellular hypersensitivity to ionising radiation and radioresistant DNA synthesis, without severe infections, immunodeficiency or cancer predisposition. Additional reported features include mild spasticity, slight and nonprogressive ataxia, hyperopia, multiple pigmented nevi, widely spaced nipples, and clinodactyly.
hadziselimovic syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of onset growth retardation (low birth weight and short stature), hypotonia, developmental delay and intellectual disability associated with microcephaly and craniofacial (low anterior hairline, hypotelorism, thick lips with carp-shaped mouth, high-arched palate, low-set ears), cardiac (conotruncal heart malformations such as tetralogy of Fallot and skeletal (hypoplastic thumbs and first metacarpals) abnormalities.
alveolar ridge cleft	A gap (cleft) affecting one of the alveolar ridges, which are the protuberances in the mouth that contain the sockets (alveoli) of the teeth. An alveolar cleft can affect all structures of the alveolar ridge, including the gingiva, other mucosa, periosteum, alveolar bone, and teeth. [HPO:mengelstad, HPO:probinson]
humeroradial synostoses	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
reardon hall slaney syndrome	This syndrome manifests with mesomelic shortening and bowing of the limbs, camptodactyly, skin dimpling and cleft palate with retrognathia and mandibular hypoplasia. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
rozin camptodactyly syndrome	The association of camptodactyly, multiple eye defects (fibrosis of the medial rectus muscle, severe myopia, ptosis and exophthalmos), scoliosis, flexion contractures and facial anomalies (arched eyebrows, facial asymmetry with an abnormal skull shape, a prominent nose, small mouth, low-set and dysplastic ears, and a low nuchal hairline). Only four cases have been reported in the literature so far. The mode of inheritance remains to be confirmed, but both autosomal dominant and recessive transmission have been considered.
chitayat meunier hodgkinson syndrome	The association of Pierre Robin sequence (retrognathia, cleft palate and glossoptosis), facial dysmorphism (high forehead with frontal bossing) and digital anomalies (tapering fingers, hyper convex nails, clinodactyly of the fifth fingers and short distal phalanges, finger-like thumbs and easily subluxated first metacarpophalangeal joints). Growth and mental development are normal. It has been described in two half brothers born to the same mother. Transmission appears to be X-linked recessive.
hydrolethalus syndrome	A severe fetal malformation syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial dysmorphic features, central nervous system, cardiac, respiratory tract and limb abnormalities. Mostly present in families of Finnish descent. The syndrome also has characteristics of postaxial and preaxial polydactyly. Caused by mutations in HYLS1 (11q24.2) and KIF7 (15q26.1). Inheritance is autosomal recessive. Stillbirth or neonatal death is the rule, although rare cases with several months' survival have been reported.
ellis yale winter syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the combination of microcephaly, heart defects, renal hypoplasia, lung segmentation defects and cleft palate. It has been described in three female siblings. Dysmorphic features were not characteristic. The condition seems to be hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor and all children died in infancy.
qazi markouizos syndrome	This syndrome is characterized principally by non-progressive central hypotonia, chronic constipation, severe psychomotor retardation, abnormal dermatoglyphics, dysharmonic skeletal maturation and disproportionate muscle fibers. Seizures or an abnormal electroencephalograph were also reported. To date, the syndrome has been reported in three unrelated Puerto Rican boys.
schisis association syndrome	Describes the combination of two or more of the following anomalies: neural tube defects (e.g. anencephaly, encephalocele, spina bifida cystica), cleft lip and palate, omphalocele and congenital diaphragmatic hernia . These anomalies are associated at a higher frequency than would be expected with random combination rates.
neurofibromatosis with noonan phenotype	A variant of neurofibromatosis type 1 characterised by the combination of features of neurofibromatosis type 1, such as café-au-lait spots, iris Lisch nodules, axillary and inguinal freckling, optic nerve glioma and multiple neurofibromas; and Noonan syndrome, with features such as short stature, typical facial features, congenital heart defects and unusual pectus deformity.
pinheiro freire-maia miranda syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of sparse, thin brittle scalp hair as well as sparse eyebrows, eyelashes, axillary and pubic hair, delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions. Mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots on back, mild dystrophy of nails and tibial deflection of toes are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
stern lubinsky durrie syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of corneal epithelial changes (associated with photophobia and burning and watering of the eyes), diffuse palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, distal onycholysis, brachydactyly, short stature, dental problems and premature birth. It has been described in seven individuals from three generations of one family. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
congenital sternal cleft	The sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum. [HPO:probinson]
seaver cassidy syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, telecanthus, downslanting palpebral fissures, ptosis, malar hypoplasia, broad nasal bridge, thin upper lip, smooth philtrum, and low-set prominent ears) and associated with joint anomalies (genu valgum or cubitus valgus, hyper-extensible joints). It has been described in two patients (a mother and her son). The boy also had hypoplastic shawl scrotum and cryptorchidism, and the mother had mild intellectual deficit.
battaglia neri syndrome	Syndrome with the association of moderate to severe intellectual deficit, microcephaly, epilepsy, coarse face, hirsutism and skeletal abnormalities (scoliosis and retarded bone development). It has been described only once, in two siblings (one male and one female). This syndrome is likely to be an autosomal recessive condition and thus parents should be informed of a 25% risk of recurrence for other children.
lynch lee murday syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of caudal appendage, short terminal phalanges, deafness, cryptorchidism, intellectual deficit, short stature and dysmorphism. It has been described in monozygotic twin boys.
der kaloustian mcintosh silver syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with synostosis described in about 4 patients to date with clinical manifestations including congenital unilateral radioulnar synostosis, generalised hypotonia, developmental delay and dysmorphic facial features (long face, prominent nose and ears).
ausems wittebol-post hennekam syndrome	An exceedingly rare association with characteristics of cleft lip and progressive retinopathy.
facial ectodermal dysplasias	Focal facial dermal dysplasias (FFDD) are rare ectodermal dysplasias, with characteristics of congenital bitemporal (resembling forceps marks) or preauricular scar-like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations. Four types of FFDD are described. Types II and III present with a variable facial dysmorphism including distichiasis (upper lashes) or lacking eyelashes, and upward slanting and thinned lateral eyebrows with a flattened nasal bridge and full upper lip. Types I and IV are infrequently associated with extra-cutaneous anomalies.
venous malformations	A vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover. A venous malformation may present as a blue patch on the skin ranging to a soft blue mass. Venous malformations are easily compressible and usually swell in thewhen venous pressure increases (e.g., when held in a dependent position or when a child cries). They may be relatively localized or quite extensive within an anatomic region. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal atrial arrangement	Abnormality of the spatial relationship of the atria to other components of the heart. [DDD:dbrown]
foetal alcohol spectrum disorder	A group of disorders caused by a prenatal exposure to maternal consumption of alcohol leading to a range of behavioral, cognitive and neurological deficits in the offspring. It is characterized by physical growth problems, distinct facies, and varying psycho-neurological issues.
pig bronchus	Accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:11158647, PMID:19332762]
supernumerary tooth ns	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular left lateral incisor tooth; Universal designation NS</p>
universal designation ps	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular right central incisor tooth; Universal designation PS</p>
universal designation js	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary left second molar tooth; Universal designation JS</p>
universal designation bs	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary right first molar tooth; Universal designation BS</p>
universal designation hs	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary left canine tooth; Universal designation HS</p>
waardenburg syndrome	rare, autosomal dominant disease with variable penetrance and several known clinical subtypes; characteristics may include depigmentation of the hair and skin, congenital deafness, heterochromia iridis, medial eyebrow hyperplasia, hypertrophy of the nasal root, and especially dystopia canthorum; the underlying cause may be defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy); may be closely related to piebaldism; Klein-Waardenburg Syndrome refers to a disorder that also includes upper limb abnormalities.
ktcnct	A very rare eye disorder representing a constellation of autosomal dominantly inherited ocular findings, including early-onset or congenital cataracts, corneal stromal thinning, early-onset keratoconus, corneal endothelial dystrophy and iris hypoplasia. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MIR184 gene on chromosome 15q25.
acrorenal syndrome	Acrorenal syndrome comprises a wide spectrum of congenital malformation disorders with characteristics of the co-occurrence of distal limb anomalies (usually bilateral cleft feet and/or hands) and renal defects (for example unilateral or bilateral agenesis), that can be associated with a variety of other anomalies such as those of genitourinary tract, abdominal well defects, intestinal atresia and lung malformations. Familial cases have been reported in which an autosomal recessive inheritance was suspected.
malan overgrowth syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by moderate postnatal overgrowth, macrocephaly, craniofacial dysmorphism (including high forehead and anterior hairline, downslanting palpebral fissures, prominent chin), developmental delay, and intellectual disability. Additional variable manifestations include unusual behavior, with or without autistic traits, as well as ocular (e.g. strabismus, nystagmus, optic disc pallor/hypoplasia), gastrointestinal (e.g. vomiting, chronic diarrhea, constipation), musculoskeletal (e.g. scoliosis and pectus excavatum), hand/foot (e.g. long, tapered fingers) and central nervous system (e.g. slightly enlarged ventricles) anomalies. The disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the NFIX gene on chromosome 19p13.
tyshchenko syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of distinctive facial appearance (low frontal hairline, bilateral ptosis, prominent eyes, flat midface, broad, ﬂat nares, Cupid's bow upper lip vermilion and small, low-set, posteriorly rotated ears), cleft palate, conductive hearing loss, heart defects (atrial or ventricular septal defect) and mild developmental delay/intellectual disability.
congenital pulmonary acinar dysplasia	Arrest of lung development in the pseudoglandular stage (weeks 8 to 16 of human gestation) resulting in small sized lungs, predominantly composed of bronchial and bronchiolar structures embedded in abundant loose mesenchyme that is poorly vascularized. Acinar structures are essentially absent, with no significant formation of saccules and no alveoli. [PMID:31151956, PMID:31189067]
postaxial polydactyly type a	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand with a complete extra finger and extra metacarpal. [HPO:probinson]
german syndrome	German syndrome is an autosomal recessive arthrogryposis syndrome, described in 5 cases. Three of the four known families with affected children were Ashkenazi Jews. German syndrome is characterized by arthrogryposis, hypotonia-hypokinesia sequence, and lymphedema. Patients present distinct craniofacial appearance (tall forehead and ''carp'' shaped mouth, cleft palate), contractures, and severe hypotonia manifesting as motor delay and swallowing difficulties. The disease has a severe morbidity and mortality rate and survivors present a small stature, hypotonia, frequent upper respiratory infections and psychomotor delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
tatton brown rahman syndrome	A disease associated with faster than normal growth before and after birth, intellectual disability, characteristic facial features including round face, thick horizontal eyebrows, narrowed palpebral fissures. Macrocephaly may also be present along with features of autism spectrum disorder. Other associated signs include kyphoscoliosis, heart defects, pes planus, hypotonia, hypermobile joints depression, anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder. Caused by mutation in the DNMT3A gene, which provides instructions for making the enzyme DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, however some cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
ectodermal dysplasia/short stature syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by short stature, nail dystrophy and/or nail loss, oral mucosa and/or tongue hyperpigmentation, dentition abnormalities (delayed teeth eruption, hypodontia, enamel hypoplasia), keratoderma on the margins of the palms and soles and focal hyperkeratosis on the dorsum of the hands and feet. Additionally, dysphagia with oesophageal strictures, sensorineural deafness, bronchial asthma and severe iron-deficiency anaemia have also been observed.
neonatal marfan syndrome	A rare severe and life-threatening genetic disease occurring during the neonatal period. The disease has characteristics of classical Marfan syndrome manifestations in addition to facial dysmorphism (megalocornea, iridodonesis, ectopia lentis, crumpled ears, loose redundant skin giving a 'senile' facial appearance), flexion joint contractures, pulmonary emphysema and a severe, rapidly progressive cardiovascular disease (including ascending aortic dilatation and severe mitral and/or tricuspid valve insufficiency). Additionally, skeletal manifestations (arachnodactyly, dolichostenomelia, pectus deformities) are also associated.
congenital conductive hearing loss	A type of conductive deafness with congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
partial defect of atrioventricular canal	A specific combination of heart defects including a primum atrial septal defect and cleft anterior mitral valve leaflet. There is not an inlet ventricular septal defect present. There are two valve annuluses and two valve orifices. [DDD:dbrown]
unilateral polymicrogyria	Excessive number of small gyri (convolutions) on the surface of one side of the brain. [HPO:probinson]
unna-thost syndrome	An autosomally dominant inherited form of palmoplantar keratoderma that is characterized by a non-gradient diffuse pattern and often, hyperhidrosis of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It does not extend beyond the palms, knucklels pads, nails, and the soles.
chops syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital abnormalities, intellectual disability and delayed development of skills such as sitting and walking. Characteristic facial features include a round face, thick hair, synophrys, wide-set, bulging eyes with long eyelashes, a short nose and down-turned corners of the mouth. Patent ductus arteriosus is present in most cases. Obstructive sleep apnea is a common feature. Cases are usually shorter than more than 97 percent of their peers and are overweight for their height. Other features include microcephaly, hearing loss, cataract, single horseshoe-shaped kidney and cryptorchidism. Caused by mutations in the AFF4 gene thought to result in excessive AFF4 protein, which interferes with normal pauses in transcription.
tricuspid valve dysplasia	A congenital malformation of the tricuspid valve characterized by leaflet deformation. [HPO:probinson, PMID:2007717, PMID:26059011, UToronto:chum]
urrets zavalia syndrome	Syndromic orbital border hypoplasia is a rare disorder observed in two families to date with characteristics of agenesis of the orbital margin, varying defects of the lacrimal passages, hypoplasia of the palpebral skin and tarsal plates and atresia of the nasolacrimal duct.
isolated congenital alacrima	Deficient lacrimation ranging from a complete absence of tears to hyposecretion of tears that is present from birth. Prevalence is unknown. Transmission is usually autosomal recessive, but dominant transmission has also been described. Artificial tears are the first treatment option, needed to avoid corneal sequelae.
familial penile hypospadias	The displacement of the urethral meatus on the ventrum of the penis. This abnormality is associated with a varyingly bent, twisted penis and opened dorsal prepuce. This congenital malformation is not rare, with an estimated prevalence of 1/1000 births but familial forms account for only 10% of cases. Hypospadias is clinically more or less severe depending on the location of the urethral opening. Familial forms are identified by determining the medical history of the family.
heide syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of osteoporosis, macrocephalus, brachytelephalangy, and hyperextensibility of the joints. Congenital amaurosis and intellectual deficit have also been reported. This syndrome has been described in three members of one family.
morse rawnsley sargent syndrome	An extremely rare fatal central nervous system malformation occurring during embryogenesis presenting prenatally on the ultrasound with holoprosencephaly and fetal hypokinesia as major features. Other manifestations include microcephaly, multiple contractures, intrauterine growth restriction. An X-linked recessive inheritance has been suggested.
limb body wall complex	Limb body wall complex (LBWC) is a syndrome with features of severe multiple congenital anomalies. Clinical manifestations vary widely and include limb defects and visceral malformations, spinal abnormalities, absent diaphragm, bowel atresia and renal agenesis. Karyotypes have been reported as normal and no correlations with gender, parental age and teratogenic agents have been found. The principal theories are an extrinsic origin by early amniotic rupture, or a vascular origin due to an early vascular accident during embryological development. Single cases of familial occurrence have been documented. LBWC is fatal, with death occurring antenatally or early in the neonatal period.
dyssegmental dysplasia with glaucoma syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by Kniest dysplasia, spine abnormalities and severe dwarfism. Glaucoma has also been reported. The syndrome has been described in two unrelated children
fetal indomethacin syndrome	A group of symptoms which may be observed in the fetus or newborn when the mother has taken indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug during pregnancy. The drug crosses the human placenta readily throughout gestation, but its effects on the embryo/fetus vary according to the stage of pregnancy.
fetal varicella syndrome	Acquired developmental anomaly syndrome characterized by skin, neural, ocular, limbs and growth defects secondary to Varicella-Zoster virus infection.
phenobarbital embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder associated with intrauterine exposure to phenobarbital during the first trimester of pregnancy. Infants are usually asymptomatic but at an increased risk of intellectual disability, tetralogy of Fallot, unilateral cleft lip, hypoplasia of the mitral valve and some other mild abnormalities such as hypertelorism.
ectodermal dysplasia with blindness syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, blindness caused by ocular malformations (microphthalmia, microcornea and sclerocornea), short stature, dysmorphic facial features (narrow nasal bridge and prominent ears), hypotrichosis, and malaligned teeth. It has been described in two siblings (brother and sister) and is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
verloes deprez syndrome	Syndrome with the association of bilateral Duane anomaly type 3, severe scoliosis of early onset, congenital myopathy with hypotonia without muscular weakness, delayed motor development, and short stature. It has been described in one pair of siblings. The Duane type 3 anomaly consists of eye abduction and adduction palsy, globe retraction and narrowing of the palpebral fissure. Muscular biopsy shows aspecific myopathy. Intellectual development is normal. The syndrome is most likely inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
wunderlich syndrome	A rare congenital urogenital anomaly characterised by the presence of double uterus (didelphys, bicornuate or septum-complete or partial), unilateral cervico-vaginal obstruction and ipsilateral renal anomalies (renal agenesis and/or other urinary tract anomalies). Patients are usually diagnosed at puberty after menarche due to recurrent severe dysmenorrhoea, chronic pelvic pain, excessive foul smelling mucopurulent discharge, spotting and intermenstrual bleeding (depending on the existence of uterine or vaginal communications). Fever, dyspareunia, and a palpable abdominal, pelvic or vaginal mass (mucocolpos or pyocolpos) may also be present.
kallman syndrome with cardiopathy	Syndrome with characteristics of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) deficiency, anosmia or hyposmia (with hypoplasia or aplasia of the olfactory bulbs) and complex congenital cardiac malformations (double-outlet right ventricle, dilated cardiomyopathy, right aortic arch). It represents a distinct clinical entity from Kallmann syndrome. Less than 10 cases have been described so far.
robinow-like syndrome	The association of the clinical features present in Robinow syndrome (short stature, mesomelic brachymelia, macrocephaly and hypoplastic genitalia) with anterior chamber cleavage anomalies. It has been described in two sisters and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
goossens devriendt syndrome	Goossens-Devriendt syndrome has characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, a congenital heart defect, postaxial polydactyly, brain malformation, abnormal hair with temporal balding and marked facial dysmorphism. It has been reported in two siblings from unrelated parents. One of the siblings died and the surviving patient showed postnatal growth retardation and severe developmental delay.
glossopalatine ankylosis	A disorder belonging to the group of oromandibular-limb hypogenesis syndromes with the presence of an intraoral band of variable thickness attaching the tongue to the hard palate or maxillary alveolar ridge. The syndrome is very rare with less than 30 cases reported in the literature so far. Associated anomalies include cleft palate (in which case the tongue may be attached to the nasal septum), mandibular hypoplasia, upper-lip hypoplasia, hypodontia and variable limb anomalies (oligodactyly, syndactyly and polydactyly as well as more severe limb malformations). The syndrome appears to be sporadic.
froster huch syndrome	Syndrome with the association of classical diaphragmatic hernia (Bochdalek type), severe lung hypoplasia and variable associated malformations. It has been reported only once in four successive fetuses (two females and two males) born to a nonconsanguineous couple. The spectrum of malformations is wide and includes omphalocele (one case), severe limb hypoplasia (two cases), syndactyly of the toes (two cases), extra spleen (one case) and an ossification defect of the skull (one case).
dermo-odonto dysplasia	Dermo-odonto dysplasia belongs to the group of tricho-odonto-onychial dysplasia. It has signs of variable severity: dry and thin skin, dental anomalies, nail alteration and trichodysplasia.
amaurosis hypertrichosis syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of severe retinal dystrophy marked by visual impairment and profound photophobia without night blindness. Eye examination suggested a cone-rod type of congenital amaurosis. Trichomegaly, bushy eyebrows with synophrys and excessive facial and body hair were also reported. The syndrome has been described in two female cousins both born to consanguineous parents.
glass chapman hockley syndrome	This syndrome has a variable clinical picture of premature coronal suture synostosis with a mild midfacial hypoplasia and hypertelorism, downslanting external palpebral fissures, beaking of the nose and brachydactyly (involving only fingers, not metacarpals). It has been reported in only one family with five affected individuals in three generations. Prenatal diagnosis of abnormal head shape was done at a routine ultrasound examination for one of the grandchildren, at 28 weeks of pregnancy. The pedigree suggests an autosomal dominantly inherited condition, but no gene could be identified for this syndrome, considered as a distinct craniosynostosis entity.
craniofacial ulnar renal syndrome	A rare developmental disorder, that unifies the overlapping autosomal recessive disorders previously known as Carnevale, Mingarelli, Malpuech and Michels syndromes. The syndrome has characteristics of a spectrum of developmental anomalies that include distinctive facial dysmorphism, cleft lip and/or palate, craniosynostosis, learning disability, radioulnar synostosis and genital and vesicorenal anomalies. Less common features reported include anterior chamber defects, cardiac anomalies, caudal appendage, umbilical hernia/omphalocele and diastasis recti.
craniofacial dyssynostosis syndrome	A rare cranial malformation syndrome with characteristics of premature closure of both lambdoid sutures and the posterior sagittal suture resulting in abnormal skull contour and dysmorphic facial features. Short stature, developmental delay, epilepsy and oculomotor dyspraxia have also been reported. Associated anomalies include enlargement of the cerebral ventricles, agenesis of the corpus callosum, Arnold-Chiari malformation type I, venous anomalies of skull and hydrocephalus.
craniofacial conodysplasia syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of craniofacial dysplasia, cone-shaped physes of the hands and feet and neurological manifestations resembling cerebral palsy. It has been described in one family. The syndrome appeared to be transmitted as a dominant trait.
morava mehes syndrome	A very rare malformation syndrome with characteristics of hypoplasia of ulna associated with hypoplastic to absent fourth and/or fifth digits, hypoplasia of fibula, short stature and facial dysmorphism.
late-onset junctional epidermolysis bullosa	A subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa the condition occurs in childhood or young adulthood. 22 patients in 12 families have been reported to date. Blistering occurs at first around nails, accompanied by nail dystrophy and shedding, and then affects the hands and feet and, to a lesser extent, the elbows, knees, along with atrophic scarring. Other manifestations include disappearance of dermatoglyphs and palmoplantar hyperhidrosis. Extracutaneous involvement is restricted to soft tissue abnormalities of the oral cavity and enamel defects with development of caries. COL17A1 mutations have recently been described in an affected family. The condition follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
prieto badia mulas syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with facial dysmorphism, patella luxation and abnormal growth of the teeth. It has been described in eight males from multiple generations of one family. The locus for the causative gene for this syndrome has been located to the region between p11.22 and p21.1 on the X chromosome.
carpenter waziri syndrome	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X caracterizado por dismorfismo facial (fisuras palpebrales inclinadas, cara estrecha, micrognatia, labio inferior distendido, filtrum plano o pequeño y exotropía y ptosis alternantes), baja estatura, hipotonía temprana y posteriormente hipertonía, incisivos centrales superiores prominentes, deformidades de los pies (pie plano, metatarso varo, equinovaro), retraso psicomotor y problemas de conducta. Se desconoce la prevalencia. Desde la descripción inicial en 1980 el trastorno se describió en varones de 11 familias y en un caso aislado. En la mayoría de los casos el síndrome se produce por mutaciones en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3); sin embargo, el gen causal en una gran familia china se localizó en un intervalo de 19,8 Mb sobre Xq25. La transmisión es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
x-linked intellectual disability abidi type	This syndrome has characteristics of X-linked intellectual deficit and mild variable manifestations, including short stature, small head circumference, sloping forehead, hearing loss, abnormally shaped ears, and small testes. It has been described in eight affected males from three generations.
armfield syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficiency, short stature, seizures and small hands and feet. It has been described in six males from three generations of one family. Three of them also had cataracts and or glaucoma and two of them had cleft palate. The locus has been mapped to the terminal 8 Mb of Xq28.
x-linked intellectual disability pai type	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of dysmorphism with intellectual deficit. It has been described in four generations of one family. Premature death was reported in the affected males. Transmission is X-linked recessive and the causative gene has been located to the q28 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability stevenson type	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, hypotonia, absent deep tendon reflexes, tapered fingers and excessive fingerprint arches, genu valgum, a characteristic face and small teeth. It has been described in four males from two generations of one family. The causative gene appears to be located in the q13 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability seemanova type	This syndrome has characteristics of microcephaly, intellectual deficit, growth retardation and hypogenitalism. It has been described in four boys from one family. A characteristic facies and ophthalmologic anomalies were also present and included microphthalmia, microcornea and cataract. Transmission is X-linked.
isolated cryptophthalmia	A congenital abnormality in which the eyelids are absent and skin covers the ocular bulb, which is often microphthalmic. Six cases of complete bilateral cryptophthalmia have been described. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
oral-facial-digital syndrome gabrielli type	An extremely rare, sporadic form of Orofaciodigital syndrome with only a few reported cases and characteristics of facial (blepharophimosis, bulbous nasal tip, broad nasal bridge, downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears) and skeletal (post-axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae) malformations along with severe intellectual disability, deafness and congenital heart defects.
tapered tooth	A tooth with a crown that narrows from proximal toward the incisal edge. Tapering of teeth typically involves incisors. [PMID:31468724]
embryopathy caused by mycophenolate mofetil	A malformative syndrome due to the teratogenic effect of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), an effective immunosuppressive agent widely used for the prevention of organ rejection after organ transplantation. To date the majority of cases have been offspring of women who received a solid organ transplant. The newborn or fetus generally has external ear anomalies. Cleft lip-palate with micrognathia is frequently observed. Aberrant orofacial cleft has been observed in one case. Ocular anomalies, such as microphthalmia and iris or chorioretinal coloboma are also frequent. Distal limbs anomalies as well as congenital malformations of the heart, kidneys and/or central nervous system may also be observed.
polyvalvular heart disease syndrome	Rare syndrome with characteristics of the combination of polyvalvular heart disease, short stature, facial anomalies and intellectual deficit. Dysplasia may involve the mitral, tricuspidal, aortic and pulmonary valves. Dysmorphic facial anomalies are usually mild, vary among families and include a dolichocephalic face, broad forehead, ptosis, prominent nose, crowded teeth, high-arched palate and posteriorly angulated and everted ears. The severity of short stature is variable, as is the presence of intellectual deficit. The condition seems to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
congenital muscular dystrophy paradas type	An early-onset form of dysferlinopathy presenting with postnatal hypotonia, weakness in the proximal lower limbs and neck flexor muscles at birth and delayed motor development. To date, two cases have been described. The disease is caused by a mutation in the dysferlin gene (DYSF) coding for a protein involved in membrane repair. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
bathing suit ichthyosis	A rare variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis. Less than 20 patients are reported in the literature. Large dark scales are present on warmer skin areas such as the trunk, the scalp, and the axillary region. On affected areas, the scales are similar to those observed in lamellar ichthyosis. Caused by specific thermo-sensitive mutations in the TGM1 gene (encoding transglutaminase 1, involved in the cornification of the stratum corneum). Affected skin areas, show a clearly reduced enzyme activity in contrast to healthy skin areas that demonstrate an almost normal enzyme activity. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
camos syndrome	Syndrome with the association of a non-progressive congenital ataxia, severe intellectual deficit, optic atrophy and structural anomalies of the skin vessels. It has been described in five children from a large consanguineous Lebanese family. Short stature and microcephaly were also reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
scalp defect postaxial polydactyly syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital scalp defects and postaxial polydactyly type A. It is an extremely rare condition. The syndrome has variable manifestations with one affected person with both congenital scalp defects and postaxial polydactyly type A, 4 people with scalp defects only and 3 people who had postaxial polydactyly only. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
czeizel losonci syndrome	An exceedingly rare severe congenital genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of split hand/split foot, hydronephrosis, and spina bifida. Spinal and skeletal manifestations were thoracolumbar scoliosis, spina bifida (spina bifida occulta or spina bifida cystic), Bochdalek diaphragmatic hernia and radial defects. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
clayton-smith donnai syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of ichthyosis, unusual facies (small mouth with a thin upper lip and lower lip with a midline groove) and digital anomalies (tapered fingers with a lack of distal flexion creases and wide spacing between the second and third fingers). It has been described in two siblings born to first cousin parents. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
charlie m syndrome	A rare bone developmental disorder belonging to a group of oromandibular limb hypogenesis syndromes. The major anomalies occuring commonly in this group are hypoplasia of the mandible, syndactyly and ectrodactyly, small mouth, cleft palate, hypodontia and facial paralysis. Patients with Charlie M syndrome also present with hypertelorism, absent or conically crowned incisors and variable degrees of hypodactyly of the hands and feet. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1976.
bonnemann meinecke reich syndrome	A syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies with characteristics of encephalopathy that predominantly occurs in the first year of life and presents as psychomotor delay. Additional features of the disease include moderate dysmorphia, craniosynostosis, dwarfism (due to growth hormone deficiency), intellectual disability, spasticity, ataxia, retinal degeneration and adrenal and uterine hypoplasia. The disease has been described in only two families, with each family having two affected siblings. An autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1991.
holmes collins syndrome	A very rare constellation of multiple anomalies including absence or hypoplasia of the tibia. It has been described in 3 siblings (two males and one female). The syndrome has characteristics of the absence or hypoplasia of the tibia, pre and postaxial polydactyly of the hands and/or feet, syndactyly of the toes, shortening and bowing of other long bones, and retrocerebellar arachnoid cyst. Parental consanguinity reported in the family suggests an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
kelly kirson wyatt syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital microcephaly with a sharply sloping forehead, digital anomalies (hallux valgus, syndactyly of the toes, short fifth fingers with a single flexion crease and absence of the distal interphalangeal crease of the fourth finger) and moderate to severe intellectual deficit. Less than 10 patients have been described so far. Linkage analysis has identified a candidate region on chromosome 18 (18p11.2-q12.3). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
sensenbrenner's syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder associated with mutation(s) in at least one of four genes (WDR35, IFT122, WDR19, or IFT43). It is characterized by distinctive abnormalities of the face and skull, in association with developmental abnormalities of the structures derived from ectodermal tissues.
acetabulum dysplasia	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
encephalocele	A congenital neural tube closure defect resulting in the protrusion of the brain through a skull opening. When the protrusion includes the meninges, the term encephalomeningocele is used.
congenital patent ductus arteriosus aneurysm	A rare congenital arterial duct anomaly with characteristics of saccular dilatation of the ductus arteriosus. It is often asymptomatic or presents shortly after birth with respiratory distress, stridor, cyanosis and/or weak cry. Complications, such as rupture, thromboembolism, infection, airway erosion and/or compression of the adjacent thoracic structures can develop. Spontaneous resolution has been reported.
familial progressive hyper and hypopigmentation	A rare genetic skin pigmentation anomaly disorder with characteristics of progressive, diffuse, partly blotchy, hyperpigmented lesions that are intermixed with multiple cafe au lait spots, hypopigmented maculae and lentigines and are located on the face, neck, trunk and limbs, as well as, frequently, the palms, soles and oral mucosa. Dyspigmentation pattern can range from well isolated cafe au lait/hypopigmented patches on a background of normal-appearing skin to confetti-like or mottled appearance. There is evidence this disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the KIT ligand gene (KITLG) on chromosome 12q22.
familial vesicoureteral reflux	A rare non-syndromic urogenital tract malformation with the familial occurrence of retrograde flow of urine from the bladder into the ureter and sometimes the kidneys. Patients may be asymptomatic or may present with recurrent, sometimes febrile, urinary tract infections that, in case of acute pyelonephritis, may lead to serious complications (renal scarring, hypertension, renal failure). Spontaneous resolution of the disorder is possible.
macrocephaly and developmental delay syndrome	A rare intellectual disability syndrome characterised by macrocephaly, mild dysmorphic features (frontal bossing, long face, hooded eye lids with small, downslanting palpebral fissures, broad nasal bridge, and prominent chin), global neurodevelopmental delay, behavioural abnormalities (e.g. anxiety, stereotyped movements) and absence or generalised tonic-clonic seizures. Additional features reported in some patients include craniosynostosis, fifth finger clinodactyly, recurrent pneumonia, and hepatosplenomegaly. The disease is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the KPTN gene on chromosome 19q13.
moran barroso syndrome	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (septum hypertrophy) and central nervous system abnormalities (myelomeningocele, Sylvius aqueduct stenosis, corpus callosum agenesis, vermis hypoplasia), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, bifid tongue, supernumerary teeth, macrocephaly, hypertelorism, pre- and post-axial polydactyly in hands, preaxial polydactyly in feet and club feet). Skeletal anomalies, such as short tibiae and central, Y-shaped metacarpals are also associated.
degner syndrome	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia) and neuropsychiatric manifestations (epilepsy, depression), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (lingual hamartomas, cleft lip, and brachydactyly, clinodactyly, syndactyly of hands and feet). Leukoaraiosis on brain MRI examination is also associated.
solamen syndrome	A rare genetic, poly malformative syndrome with characteristics of progressive, proportionate, asymmetric segmental overgrowth (with soft tissue hypertrophy and ballooning effect) that develops and progresses rapidly in early childhood, arteriovenous and lymphatic vascular malformations, lipomatosis and linear epidermal nevus (arranged in whorls along the lines of Blaschko). Clinical symptoms of Cowden syndrome, such as macrocephaly and progressive development of numerous hypertrophic hamartomatous and neoplastic lesions involving multiple organs and systems are also associated. Patients present an increased risk of developing cancer.
spina bifida and hypospadias syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with the specific association of glandular hypospadias and lumbo-sacral spina bifida. Affected individuals may or may not present additional congenital anomalies, such as hydrocephaly, microstomia, patent ductus arteriosus, cryptorchidism, intestinal malrotation, rocker-bottom feet and hypertrichosis.
cylindrical spirals myopathy	A rare form of congenital myopathy characterized by global muscle weakness, hypotonia, myotonia and cramps in the presence of cylindrical, spiral-shaped inclusions (located in the central and/or subsarcolemmal areas of muscle fibers) in skeletal muscle biopsy. Abnormal gait, scoliosis, epileptic encephalopathy and psychomotor delay may be associated.
van benthem driessen hanveld syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterised by psychomotor delay, severe intellectual deficit, severe muscle hypoplasia (with absence of subcutaneous fatty tissue), generalised contractures, craniofacial dysmorphic features (dolichocephaly, esotropia, ears of unequal size, high palate), chest and spinal deformities (sternum shifted to side, kyphoscoliosis), pulmonary anomalies (unilateral hypoplastic bronchial system), arachnodactyly, and genital abnormalities (cryptorchidism, hypospadias, testicular agenesis). Repeated respiratory tract infections and atelectasis are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1970.
neuhauser anomaly	A rare cardiovascular morphological anomaly due to maldevelopment of embryonal aorta resulting in right aortic arch and left ligamentum arteriosum characterised by tracheooesophageal compression symptoms (stridor, dyspnoea, dysphagia, apnoeic episodes, recurrent respiratory infections).
finucane kurtz scott syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, short stature, sensorineural hearing impairment, facial dysmorphism (including epicanthus, broad, depressed nasal bridge, broad, fleshy nasal tip, mildly anteverted nares, deep nasolabial folds, broad mouth with thin upper lip) and skeletal anomalies (including abnormally placed thumbs, brachydactyly, scoliosis, dysplastic carpal bones). Severe behavior disturbances (aggression, hyperactivity), as well as hypopigmented skin lesions and hypoplastic digital patterns are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
primary tethered spinal cord syndrome	A genetic non-syndromic congenital malformation of the neurenteric canal, spinal cord and column characterized by progressive neurologic deterioration (pain, sensorimotor deficits, abnormal gait, decreased tone or abnormal reflexes), musculoskeletal changes (foot deformities and asymmetry, muscle atrophy, limb weakness and numbness, gait disturbances, scoliosis) and/or genitourinary manifestations (bladder and bowel dysfunction). Midline cutaneous stigmata in the lumbosacral region, such as turfs of hair, skin appendages, dimples, subcutaneous lipomas, skin discoloration or hemangiomas, are frequently associated.
hypotrichosis	Presence of less than the normal amount of hair. (Dorland, 27th ed)
multiple congenital anomalies nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
anomaly; multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
amniotic band syndrome	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
deformity due to amniotic band	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
pigeon chest	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
brachydactylias	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
pili torti	Pili (from Latin pilus, hair) torti (from Latin tortus, twisted) refers to short and brittle hairs that appear flattened and twisted when viewed through a microscope. [HPO:probinson]
thoracic pelvic phalangeal dystrophy	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by a narrow thorax, micromelia, and respiratory disturbances which may lead to asphyxiation. It may be associated with bilateral microcystic renal disease which may lead to renal failure.
goodman syndrome	An extremely rare chondrodysplastic malformation syndrome with the combination of arachnodactyly, becoming evident at around the age of 10, camptodactyly and scoliosis. A mild facial dysmorphism including a broad nose and flaring nostrils and a mild intellectual disability were also noted. The syndrome has been described once in 3 siblings and is suspected to follow autosomal recessive transmission. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1972.
costocoracoid ligament congenitally short	A rare anomaly with characteristics of fixation of the scapula to the first rib, resulting in a cosmetic deformity with rounding of the shoulders and loss of the anterior clavicular contour. It has been described only once in several members of a single family from Canada. The abnormality resulted in a strong pectoral girdle with lack of mobility. Movements requiring rotation or retraction of the scapula were limited, but this does not normally interfere with daily activities.
lethal multiple pterygium syndrome	A rare variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by severe athrogryposis, pterygium, akinesia and often hydrops fetalis and cystic hygroma. This variant is fatal, usually during the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
acrofacial dysostosis rodriguez type	A multiple malformation syndrome in which mandibulofacial dysostosis and severe limb reduction defects are associated with complex malformations of different organs and systems especially the central nervous system, urogenital tract, heart, and lungs. The mandibulofacial defect causes death by respiratory distress. Limb reduction is severe and includes shoulder and pelvis hypoplasia, phocomelia with humerus hypoplasia, absent radius and ulna, complete absence of long bones of the legs, and various hand anomalies, predominantly preaxial reduction. These infants also show facial dysmorphism and ear anomalies. The condition is a rare with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. The prognosis is poor and this condition leads to death in utero or shortly after birth.
limb-mammary syndrome	A rare type of ectodermal dysplasia. Less than 50 cases have been described in the literature so far. Clinically, the syndrome has characteristics of severe hand and/or foot anomalies, and hypoplasia/aplasia of the mammary gland and nipple. Clinical expression is extremely variable. Individuals with mild LMS have isolated athelia. All three major categories of limb defects (i.e., deficiencies, duplications and fusion/separation defects), as well as several combinations of these anomalies, were observed. Variation in the severity of the limb defects may be observed, not only between individuals but also between the left and right hand/foot of one individual. Skin and hair are spared. An autosomal dominant disease caused by loss-of-function mutations in exon 13 and 14 of the TP63 gene found on the subtelomeric region of chromosome 3 (3q27).
radio renal syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of variable upper limb reduction defects and renal anomalies. Patients typically present absence/hypoplasia of digits, radii and/or ulnae, short stature and mild external ear malformation, as well as kidney agenesis or ectopia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1983.
camptodactyly taurinuria syndrome	A congenital malformation syndrome with the association of a permanent camptodactyly of the fingers and the over excretion of taurine in the urine. Camptodactyly mainly affects the little finger, although any finger may be involved. The disease has been described in 17 affected patients from 4 unrelated families. An autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1966.
amniotic band constriction	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
choana; atresia	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
congenital atresia of posterior nares	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
pes equinus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congen foot deformity	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital deformity of foot nos	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital anomaly of foot	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
valgus; talipes	Outward turning of the heel, resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
pigeon-chested	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
congenital keeled chest	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
rocker-bottom foot	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
congenital deformities of hip	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
congenital talipes equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
calcaneovarus; talipes	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
bat ear	Anterior and inferior folding of the upper portion of the ear that obliterates triangular fossa and scapha. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
simple ear	The pinna has fewer folds and grooves than usual. [PMID:15523657]
mono nostril	The presence of only a single nostril. [PMID:19152422]
vulcan ear	The presence of a supernumerary, i.e. third, crus of the helix in the helix, arising at or above the normal bifurcation of the antihelix. [HPO:sdoelken]
zori stalker williams syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of relative macrocephaly, pectus excavatum, short stature, nail dysplasia, and motor developmental delay (that resolves during childhood). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
goldblatt viljoen syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
proboscis lateralis	A rare congenital facial abnormality with manifestation of failed development of the external nose on one side that is replaced by a tubular structure composed of skin and soft tissue usually attached at the inner canthus of the eye. The disorder is therefore often associated with maldevelopment of the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses of the affected side. Also associated with other craniofacial abnormalities such as orbital anomalies and cleft lip/palate.
congenital hip dysplasia	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
hip dysplasia congen	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
hamartoma nos	A focal malformation resembling a neoplasm, composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues that normally occur in the affected area.
intestinal malrotation	A congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated (twisted). It may result in intestinal obstruction.
hypoplasia	Incomplete or arrested development of an organ or a part
sialo-odontogenic cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst with epithelial features that simulate salivary gland or glandular differentiation. (WHO 2017)
anus imperforate	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
coarctation of the aorta	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
coarctation of aorta nos	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
arnold chiari syndrome	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
atresia of bile ducts	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
bloom syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectatic ERYTHEMA of the face, photosensitivity, DWARFISM and other abnormalities, and a predisposition toward developing cancer. The Bloom syndrome gene (BLM) encodes a RecQ-like DNA helicase.
sequestration of lung	A developmental anomaly in which a mass of nonfunctioning lung tissue lacks normal connection with the tracheobroncheal tree and receives an anomalous blood supply originating from the descending thoracic or abdominal aorta. The mass may be extralobar, i.e., completely separated from normally connected lung, or intralobar, i.e., partly surrounded by normal lung.
congenital choledochal cyst	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
ciliary motility disorders	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
hare lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
clubbing of feet	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
cataract; congenital	Cataract that is present at birth.
cranial meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
congenital spinal hydromeningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
maldescended testicle	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
cryptorchism nos	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
testicle; nondescent	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
lung malformation cystic adenomatoid congen	An abnormality in lung development that is characterized by a multicystic mass resulting from an adenomatous overgrowth of the terminal BRONCHIOLES with a consequent reduction of PULMONARY ALVEOLI. This anomaly is classified into three types by the cyst size.
dandy-walker anomaly	A congenital abnormality of the central nervous system marked by failure of the midline structures of the cerebellum to develop, dilation of the fourth ventricle, and upward displacement of the transverse sinuses, tentorium, and torcula. Clinical features include occipital bossing, progressive head enlargement, bulging of anterior fontanelle, papilledema, ataxia, gait disturbances, nystagmus, and intellectual compromise. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, pp294-5)
abnormal spacing of the teeth	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
hypoplasia of thymus and parathyroids	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
double-outlet right ventricle	Incomplete transposition of the great vessels in which both the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY arise from the RIGHT VENTRICLE. The only outlet of the LEFT VENTRICLE is a large ventricular septal defect (VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS or VSD). The various subtypes are classified by the location of the septal defect, such as subaortic, subpulmonary, or noncommitted.
duchenne muscular dystrophy	An X-linked recessive muscle disease caused by an inability to synthesize DYSTROPHIN, which is involved with maintaining the integrity of the sarcolemma. Muscle fibers undergo a process that features degeneration and regeneration. Clinical manifestations include proximal weakness in the first few years of life, pseudohypertrophy, cardiomyopathy (see MYOCARDIAL DISEASES), and an increased incidence of impaired mentation. Becker muscular dystrophy is a closely related condition featuring a later onset of disease (usually adolescence) and a slowly progressive course. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1415)
patent ductus arteriosis	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
ectopic heart	A rare developmental defect in which the heart is abnormally located partially or totally outside the THORAX. It is the result of defective fusion of the anterior chest wall. Depending on the location of the heart, ectopia cordis can be thoracic, thoracoabdominal, abdominal, and cervical.
infectious ectromelia	A viral infection of mice, causing edema and necrosis followed by limb loss.
eisenmenger's complex	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
ellis-van creveld syndrome	Dwarfism occurring in association with defective development of skin, hair, and teeth, polydactyly, and defect of the cardiac septum. (Dorland, 27th ed)
bifid craniums	Brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull. The majority of congenital encephaloceles occur in the occipital or frontal regions. Clinical features include a protuberant mass that may be pulsatile. The quantity and location of protruding neural tissue determines the type and degree of neurologic deficit. Visual defects, psychomotor developmental delay, and persistent motor deficits frequently occur.
congenitalcerebral hernia	Brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull. The majority of congenital encephaloceles occur in the occipital or frontal regions. Clinical features include a protuberant mass that may be pulsatile. The quantity and location of protruding neural tissue determines the type and degree of neurologic deficit. Visual defects, psychomotor developmental delay, and persistent motor deficits frequently occur.
esophageal diverticulum	Saccular protrusion beyond the wall of the ESOPHAGUS.
martin-bell syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
teeth fusion	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
liver phosphorylase; deficiency	A hepatic GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE in which there is an apparent deficiency of hepatic phosphorylase (GLYCOGEN PHOSPHORYLASE, LIVER FORM) activity.
hand malformation	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
defect; interatrial septal	Developmental abnormalities in any portion of the ATRIAL SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communications between the two upper chambers of the heart. Classification of atrial septal defects is based on location of the communication and types of incomplete fusion of atrial septa with the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS in the fetal heart. They include ostium primum, ostium secundum, sinus venosus, and coronary sinus defects.
defect; ventricular septal	Developmental abnormalities in any portion of the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communications between the two lower chambers of the heart. Classification of ventricular septal defects is based on location of the communication, such as perimembranous, inlet, outlet (infundibular), central muscular, marginal muscular, or apical muscular defect.
lindau's diseases	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
hirschsprungs disease	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
notched incisors of hutchinson	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
teeth malformed hutchinson's teeth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
hydrancephaly	A congenital condition where the greater portions of the cerebral hemispheres and CORPUS STRIATUM are replaced by CSF and glial tissue. The meninges and the skull are well formed, which is consistent with earlier normal embryogenesis of the telencephalon. Bilateral occlusions of the internal carotid arteries in utero is a potential mechanism. Clinical features include intact brainstem reflexes without evidence of higher cortical activity. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p307)
wide-set eyes	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
bloch-sulzberger syndrome	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
darier's disease	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
klippel-feil deformity	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome ii	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
laurence moon biedl syndrome	En autosomalt recessiv sjukdom som kännetecknas av hypogonadism, nedbrytning av ryggmärg och lillhjärna, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, retinitis pigmentosa och fetma. Syndromet kallades Laurence-Moon-Biedls syndrom tills Bardet-Biedls syndrom erkändes som ett självständigt sjukdomstillstånd.
lymphangioma	A benign tumor resulting from a congenital malformation of the lymphatic system. Lymphangioendothelioma is a type of lymphangioma in which endothelial cells are the dominant component.
diverticulum meckels's	En medfödd missbildning kännetecknad av en utbuktning i ileum. Det är en kvarleva av embryots gulesäck, där äggulegången inte slutits.
hypoglossia	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
myotonia atrophica	Neuromuscular disorder characterized by PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR ATROPHY; MYOTONIA, and various multisystem atrophies. Mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may also occur. Abnormal TRINUCLEOTIDE REPEAT EXPANSION in the 3' UNTRANSLATED REGIONS of DMPK PROTEIN gene is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 1. DNA REPEAT EXPANSION of zinc finger protein-9 gene intron is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 2.
teeth; neonatal	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
orofaciodigital syndrome	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
morbus osgood-schlatter	Morbus Osgood-Schlatter is a Juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the Tuberositas tibiae. [HPO:sdoelken]
juvenile osteochondrosis of tibia tubercle	Morbus Osgood-Schlatter is a Juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the Tuberositas tibiae. [HPO:sdoelken]
cyst; fimbrial	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
persistent; ostium primum	A congenital defect in the atrial septum at the level of the atrioventricular valves, resulting in abnormalities in the mitral and/or tricuspid valve; this defect is most commonly seen in those with Trisomy 21.
peutz's syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
phocomelia of unspecified limb	Missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts (such as hands and/or feet) connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
prbns	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
poland anomalad	A syndrome which is characterized by symbrachydactyly and aplasia of the sternal head of pectoralis major.
congenital infundibular stenosis	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
sja syndrome	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
scimitar syndrome	An anomalous pulmonary venous return in which the right PULMONARY VEIN is not connected to the LEFT ATRIUM but to the INFERIOR VENA CAVA. Scimitar syndrome is named for the crescent- or Turkish sword-like shadow in the chest radiography and is often associated with hypoplasia of the right lung and right pulmonary artery, and dextroposition of the heart.
genetic skin diseases	Diseases of the skin with a genetic component, usually the result of various inborn errors of metabolism.
sturge weber dimitri syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
thyroglossal duct cyst	A cyst in the neck caused by persistence of portions of, or by lack of closure of, the primitive thyroglossal duct. (Dorland, 27th ed)
supplemental teeth	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
common aortopulmonary trunk	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
epiloia	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
adult progeria	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
pigmentosum; xeroderma	A rare, pigmentary, and atrophic autosomal recessive disease. It is manifested as an extreme photosensitivity to ULTRAVIOLET RAYS as the result of a deficiency in the enzyme that permits excisional repair of ultraviolet-damaged DNA.
zellweger syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder due to defects in PEROXISOME biogenesis which involves more than 13 genes encoding peroxin proteins of the peroxisomal membrane and matrix. Zellweger syndrome is typically seen in the neonatal period with features such as dysmorphic skull; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; visual compromise; SEIZURES; progressive degeneration of the KIDNEYS and the LIVER. Zellweger-like syndrome refers to phenotypes resembling the neonatal Zellweger syndrome but seen in children or adults with apparently intact peroxisome biogenesis.
branchial cleft - malformation	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
spina bifida; occulta	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
benign familial pemphigus	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
arteriohepatic dysplasia	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
tca - total colonic aganglionosis	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
ankyloglossia congenital	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
agenesis; lens	Absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect. [HPO:probinson]
supernumerary digit	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
hymen; fusion	A congenital disorder where the hymen (a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening) does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina. [PMID:24822139]
carpus curvus	An anomaly related to partial closure, or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate, which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius. This leads to shortening of the radius and relative overgrowth of the ulna. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12362035]
hydrorachis	Dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital coloboma of optic disc	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
congenital aortic insufficiency	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congenital anomaly of lung	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
accessory finger	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers. [HPO:probinson]
extra; toe	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes. [HPO:probinson]
accessory toe	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes. [HPO:probinson]
fused fingers	Webbing or fusion of the fingers, involving soft parts and including fusion of individual finger bones. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the fingers in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:sdoelken]
macrodactyly of toe	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
carolis syndrome	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
dysplasia olfactogenitalis of de morsier	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
kallman syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
olfactogenital dysplasia	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
russell-silver syndrome	Genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by low birth weight, postnatal growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, bilateral body asymmetry, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers. Alterations in GENETIC IMPRINTING are involved. Hypomethylation of IGF2/H19 locus near an imprinting center region of chromosome 11p15 plays a role in a subset of Silver-Russell syndrome. Hypermethylation of the same chromosomal region, on the other hand, can cause BECKWITH-WIEDEMANN SYNDROME. Maternal UNIPARENTAL DISOMY for chromosome 7 is known to play a role in its etiology.
rsh syndromes	An autosomal recessive disorder of CHOLESTEROL metabolism. It is caused by a deficiency of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase, the enzyme that converts 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol, leading to an abnormally low plasma cholesterol. This syndrome is characterized by multiple CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES, growth deficiency, and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
chorioretinal anomalies with acc	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
absence of the corpus callosum	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
regional odontodysplasia	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
hygroma	A cystic growth originating from lymphatic tissue. It is usually found in the neck, axilla, or groin.
limb malformation nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
aase-smith syndrome i	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
maxillonasal dysplasia	A rare developmental anomaly, affecting primarily the anterior part of the maxilla and nasal complex. Affected individuals typically have an unusually flat, underdeveloped midface, with an abnormally short nose and flat nasal bridge, underdeveloped upper jaw, relatively protruding lower jaw and/or a 'reverse overbite'' (or class III malocclusion). Hypoplasia of distal phalanges of fingers was reported in some cases. The pathogenesis remains uncertain, most reported cases were sporadic.
short fingers or toes	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
duplicated ureter	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of two separate ureters draining a kidney.
port-wine stain of skin	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
fsh muscular dystrophy	En autosomalt dominant, degenerativ muskelsjukdom som kännetecknas av långsamt tilltagande svaghet i ansiktets, överarmens och skuldergördelns muskler. Symtomen debuterar vanligtvis under livets första eller andra årtionde. De drabbade uppvisar oftast försämrad förmåga att höja armarna. Dessa tecken brukar följas av ansiktsmuskelsvaghet, främst i munnens och ögats ringmuskler.
ears low set	Upper insertion of the ear to the scalp below an imaginary horizontal line drawn between the inner canthi of the eye and extending posteriorly to the ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
coloboma; fundus	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
dental crossbite	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
a crossbite was observed	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
ulerythema ophryogenes	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
trichorrhexis nodosa	Trichorrhexis nodosa is the formation of nodes along the hair shaft through which breakage readily occurs. It is thus a focal defect in the hair fiber that is characterized by thickening or weak points (nodes) that cause the hair to break off easily. The result is defective, abnormally fragile hair. [HPO:curators]
syndrome weaver	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene, and rarely mutations in the NSD1 gene. It is characterized by advanced bone age, foot deformities, permanently bent joints, macrocephaly, flattened back of the head, a broad forehead, hypertelorism, large, low-set ears, micrognathia, delayed development of motor skills, and mild intellectual disability.
neu-laxova syndrome	A rare multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of severe intrauterine growth retardation, severe microcephaly with a sloping forehead, severe ichthyosis (collodion baby type), and facial dysmorphism. Severe central nervous system defects are present. The syndrome is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
walker-warburg muscular dystrophy	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
hard syndromes	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
royer syndrome	Spojení diabetes mellitus se syndromem Prader-Williho.
whistling face; syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
pena-shokeir phenotype	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder. It is characterized by arthrogryposis, facial anomalies, polyhydramnios, camptodactyly, intrauterine growth retardation, and pulmonary hypoplasia. Pulmonary hypoplasia is present in the vast majority of cases and is often the fatal component of this syndrome.
cryptophthalmos syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive congenital malformation syndrome characterized by cryptophthalmos, SYNDACTYLY and UROGENITAL ABNORMALITIES. Other anomalies of bone, ear, lung, and nose are common. Mutations on FRAS1 and FREM2 are associated with the syndrome.
melnick fraser syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
otomandibular syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
otocephaly	A fatal, congenital, anatomic defect of the head characterised by a total or near total absence of the lower jaw, resulting in the union or close approach of the ears on the ventral side of the neck.
townes syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
stickler syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
popliteal pterygium syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
leri-weill syndrome	A bone growth disorder inherited in a pseudoautosomal dominant pattern caused by mutations in the SHOX gene. It is characterized by short long bones in the arms and legs, short stature, and abnormalities of the wrist and forearm bones which may cause pain and limit wrist movement.
pachyonychia congenita	A group of inherited ectodermal dysplasias whose most prominent clinical feature is hypertrophic nail dystrophy resulting in PACHYONYCHIA. Several specific subtypes of pachyonychia congenita have been associated with mutations in genes that encode KERATINS.
meromelia	Partial absence of a free limb (excluding girdle). It can refer to the proximal, middle or distal segment of the upper or lower limb. The deficiency may be transverse or longitudinal. Thus, meromelia is a lack of a part, but not all, of one or more limbs with the presence of a hand or foot. [UToronto:chum]
claw hands	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
phocomelia of upper limb	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
phocomelia of an upper limb	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
phocomelia of upper limb nos	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity of hip	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
tarsal fusions	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
foot syndactyly	Webbing or fusion of the toes, involving soft parts only or including bone structure. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the toes in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:curators]
bochdalek hernia	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
atresia of bronchus	A developmental anomaly characterised by focal obliteration of the proximal segment of a bronchus. The bronchial pattern is entirely normal distal to the site of stenosis. [UToronto:chum]
preductal coarctation of aorta	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized proximal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the preductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
postductal coarctation of aorta	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized distal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the postductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital anomaly of pulmonary vein	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
netherton disease	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
anonychia congenita	Aplasia of the nail. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; digestive organ	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
gemination of teeth	The development of two teeth from a single tooth bud, leading to a larger fused tooth. [PMID:18167487]
taurodontia	Increased volume of dental pulp of permanent molar characterized by a crown body-root ratio equal or larger than 1:1 or an elongated pulp chambers and apical displacement of the bifurcation or trifurcation of the roots. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
anterior crossbite	<p>Anterior crossbite</p>
abnormal esophagus morphology	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital duplication of oesophagus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the esophagus. The duplicated segment may by tubular or cystic.
absent gallbladder	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
liver agenesis	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal thryoid location	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
thyroglossal fistula	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
congenital hydroureter	Dilatation of the ureter caused by obstruction of urine flow that is present at birth.
ovarian agenesis	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
streak; ovary	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
abnormalities uterine	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
anomalies of uterus nos	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital uterine anomaly nos	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital abnormality of uterus hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
anomalies aplasia cervix	Congenital absence of the cervix. []
vanishing testis	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
absence of vas deferens	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
cerebellum hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the cerebellum that is associated with inherited metabolic disorders and neurodegenerative disorders. Signs and symptoms include mental and developmental delays, walking and balance difficulties, floppy muscle tone, and seizures.
large gyri of cerebrum	Pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1,5-3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm (radiological definition). See also neuropathological definitions for 2-, 3-, and 4-layered lissencephaly. [COST:neuromig, HPO:probinson, PMID:22427329]
grey matter heterotopias	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
pericranii; sinus	Vzácné anomální spojení mezi intrakraniálním a extrakraniálním žilním oběhem přes diploe, střední houbovitou vrstvu lebečních kostí. Abnormální drenáž intrakraniálních žilních splavů vede často k dilataci žilních struktur skalpu. Onemocnění může být vrozené nebo způsobené poraněním.
absent spinal cord	Congenital absence of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital lamellar cataract	A congenital cataract in which opacity is limited to layers of the lens external to the nucleus (i.e., the perinuclear region), i.e., between the nuclear and cortical layers of the lens. [HPO:probinson]
microphakia	Abnormal smallness of the lens. [HPO:probinson]
congenital aplasia of inner ear	Absence of the inner ear due to a developmental defect. [DDD:dfitzpatrick]
blighted ovum	Pregnancy loss with visible gestational sac or yolk sac or both but no visible embryo on ultrasonogram.
synophthalmus	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
celosomial monster	Congenital protrusion of the abdominal or thoracic viscera, usually with a defect of the sternum and ribs as well as of the abdominal walls. [HPO:sdoelken]
placenta bipartita	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
placenta increta	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium that does not cross the serosa.
placenta percreta	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium and serosa. It may further extend into an adjacent organ such as the bladder.
placenta multiplex	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into more than two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
circumvallate placenta	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes that are folded along all or part of the disc perimeter. The amnion may or may not be included in the folded tissue.
marginal placenta	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
placenta circummarginate	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
velamentous umbilical cord insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
membranous insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
velamentous insertion of umbilical cord	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
esophagobronchial fistula	An abnormal connection between a bronchus and the esophagus.
lysosomal protective protein deficiency	An autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutation(s) in the CTSA gene, encoding lysosomal protective protein. It is characterized by a combined deficiency of neuraminidase and beta-galactosidase.
partial androgen insensitivity syndrome	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
alstrom hallgren syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by multiple organ dysfunction. The key clinical features include retinal degeneration (NYSTAGMUS, PATHOLOGIC; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and eventual blindness), childhood obesity, sensorineural hearing loss, and normal mental development. Endocrinologic complications include TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; HYPERINSULINEMIA; ACANTHOSIS NIGRICANS; HYPOTHYROIDISM; and progressive renal and hepatic failures. The disease is caused by mutations in the ALMS1 gene.
alström syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by multiple organ dysfunction. The key clinical features include retinal degeneration (NYSTAGMUS, PATHOLOGIC; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and eventual blindness), childhood obesity, sensorineural hearing loss, and normal mental development. Endocrinologic complications include TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; HYPERINSULINEMIA; ACANTHOSIS NIGRICANS; HYPOTHYROIDISM; and progressive renal and hepatic failures. The disease is caused by mutations in the ALMS1 gene.
perinatal jaundice from inspissated bile	A syndrome characterized by persistent jaundice, hemolytic anemia, and hepatomegaly in a newborn. It is characterized by the presence of inspissated bile plugs in the bile ducts.
floppy infants	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
hallgren syndrome	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
shwachman's syndrome	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
congenital; deafness	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
bifid; scrotum	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
woodhouse-sakati syndrome	Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome is a multisystemic disorder with characteristics of hypogonadism, alopecia, diabetes mellitus, intellectual deficit and extrapyramidal signs with choreoathetoid movements and dystonia. The onset is usually in adolescence. Additional manifestations may include sensorineural deafness, flattened T waves on ECG, seizures, sensory polyneuropathy, dysarthria, various craniofacial abnormalities (high forehead, flat occiput, triangular face, prominent nasal root, hypertelorism, and down-slanting palpebral fissures), scoliosis, hyperreflexia, and camptodactyly. Associated with mutations in the DCAF17 gene (2q31.1), encoding a nucleolar protein of unknown function. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
hypoplasia of corpus callosum	Underdevelopment of the corpus callosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
congenital absence of sacrum	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
blue dot cataract	Cerulean cataracts are a kind of congenital cataract having peripheral bluish and white opacifications in concentric layers with occasional central lesions arranged radially. Although the opacities may be observed during fetal development and childhood, usually visual acuity is only mildly reduced until adulthood, when lens extraction is generally necessary. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19496508, PMID:9158139]
underdeveloped iris	Congenital underdevelopment of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly peter	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
partial common atrioventricular canal	An ostium primum atrial septal defect is located in the most anterior and inferior aspect of the atrial septum. The ostium primum refers to an anterior and inferior opening (ostium) within the septum primum, which divides the rudimentary atrium during fetal development. The ostium primum is normally sealed by fusion of the superior and inferior endocardial cushions around 5 weeks' gestation. Ostium primum defects result from a failure of the fusion of the embryologic endocardial cushion and septum primum. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of pericardium	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
pericardium; agenesis	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
gallbladder; hypoplasia	The presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
hepatic anomalous lobulation	Formation of abnormal lobules (small masses of tissue) in the liver. [HPO:probinson]
radial polydactyly	A form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the thumb or great toe. [HPO:probinson]
lower limb undergrowth	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
short femur	An abnormal shortening of the femur. [HPO:probinson]
craniotabes	Softening of the skull seen in newborns due to incomplete mineralization.
syndrome robert	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
lymphatic abnormality	Medfödda eller förvärvade strukturella avvikelser i lymfsystemet, inklusive lymfkärlen.
additional cusp	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
macromandible	Malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar (mesioclusion).
hay-wells syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
eyes close together	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
classic lissencephaly	A genetic disorder caused by mutations in the LIS1, XLIS, or TUBA1A genes. It results in brain malformation characterized by the underdevelopment or absence of gyri or ridges in the cerebral cortex. Signs and symptoms include epilepsy and mental retardation.
neocortical dysplasia	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
posteriorly rotated ear	A type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation (the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head, and the inferior part of the ears towards the front). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
bilateral arterial duct	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
intrahepatic atresia of bile duct	A congenital disorder characterized by blockage or absence of the intrahepatic bile ducts.
congenital intrahepatic biliary atresia	A congenital disorder characterized by blockage or absence of the intrahepatic bile ducts.
bilateral; cryptorchism	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
hemiatrophy of upper limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of an arm. [HPO:probinson]
congenital carpal coalition	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
short thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
accessory little finger	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand (that is, on the side with the fifth finger). [HPO:sdoelken]
ulnar polydactyly of fingers	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand (that is, on the side with the fifth finger). [HPO:sdoelken]
hemihypertrophy of lower limb	Overgrowth of only one leg. [HPO:probinson]
proximal femoral focal deficiency	Proximal femoral focal deficiency is a deformity manifested by hypoplasia of a variable portion of the femur with shortening of the entire limb. [PMID:21438051, PMID:23915863, UToronto:chum]
split-foot	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
cleft anterior maxilla	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cervical hemivertebrae	Absence of one half of the vertebral body in the cervical spine. []
pretibial epidermolysis bullosa	A type of blistering that affects the skin of the tibial region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15265795]
retinoic acid embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
microtia-aortic arch syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
fetal isotretinoin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
sacral meningocele	A congenital abnormality in the sacral region of the spine in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
coloboma of the eyelid	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
the sclera was blue	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
bifid nail	A digit with two nails, with at least some soft tissue between them. [PMID:19125433]
extra long bones of hand	The presence of more than the normal number of metacarpal bones. [HPO:curators]
sacralised fifth lumbar vertebra	A congenital anomaly, in which the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra (L5) fuses to the sacrum on one side or both, or to ilium, or both. [UToronto:bgallinger]
cantrell's pentalogy	Rare congenital deformity syndrome characterized by a combination of five anomalies as a result of neural tube defect. The five anomalies are a midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect (e.g., OMPHALOCELE), a lower STERNUM defect, a congenital intracardiac defect, an anterior DIAPHRAGM defect, and a diaphragmatic PERICARDIUM defect (e.g., PERICARDIAL EFFUSION). Variants with incomplete and variable combinations of the defects are known. ECTOPIA CORDIS; CLEFT LIP; and CLEFT PALATE are often associated with the syndrome.
epispadias - male	Displacement of the urethral opening on the dorsal (superior) surface of the penis. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
short radii	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
camptodactyly congenital	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; ischium	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
muscular ventricular septum defect	The trabecular septum is the largest part of the interventricular septum. It extends from the membranous septum to the apex and superiorly to the infundibular septum. A defect in the trabecular septum is called muscular VSD if the defect is completely rimmed by muscle. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:17101870]
microblepharia	Abnormal shortness of the vertical dimensions of the eyelids. [http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/microblepharia]
infantile stricture of the pylorus	An abnormality characterized by thickening of the muscle in the wall of the pylorus. It results in the narrowing of the pyloric channel. The overlying mucosa may appear hypertrophic as well. Clinical signs and symptoms appear early in life and include projectile vomiting and dehydration.
pes cavus	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
floating harbour syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the SRCAP gene, encoding helicase SRCAP. It is characterized by proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, delayed speech development, and typical facial features.
eventration	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
filippi syndrome	Filippi syndrome has manifestations of microcephaly, cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers and toes, intellectual deficit, growth retardation and a characteristic facies (high and broad nasal bridge, thin alae nasi, micrognathia and a high frontal hairline). So far, less than 25 cases have been reported. Cryptorchidism, polydactyly and teeth and hair anomalies may also be present. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
hardikar syndrome	A syndrome of multiple congenital malformations with an association of cleft lip and palate, patchy pigmentary retinopathy (cat's paw), obstructive liver disease (cholestasis, portal hypertension) and obstructive renal disease (ectopic ureteric insertion, obstruction, hydronephrosis). Gastrointestinal tract and cardiac involvement have also been reported. An overlap with Kabuki syndrome is debated.
johnson mcmillin syndrome	Johnson neuroectodermal syndrome has characteristics of alopecia, anosmia or hyposmia, conductive deafness with malformed ears and microtia and/or atresia of the external auditory canal and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. So far, less than 30 cases have been described in the literature. Other variable features include a congenital heart defect, facial asymmetry, intellectual deficit, cleft palate, choanal stenosis and an increased tendency for dental caries. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. The combination of developmental anomalies present in patients with this syndrome is suggestive of an embryological defect in the formation of the neuroectodermal derivatives of cephalic neural crest.
kabuki syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene (also known as MLL2) or the KDM6A gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial features including arched eyebrows, long eyelashes, long palpebral fissures with the lower lids turned out at the outside edges, a flat nose, and large protruding earlobes, developmental delay and intellectual disability.
ptrpls	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
lowry-maclean syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of microcephaly, craniosynostosis, glaucoma, growth failure and visceral malformations. Only three cases have been reported in the literature in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include trigonocephaly, exotropia, cleft palate, beaked nose and low-set ears. All the affected patients have associated congenital visceral malformations including congenital heart defects, diaphragmatic hernia, genital or cerebral abnormalities. The demonstration of congenital glaucoma, hallmark of the syndrome, in the father of an affected patient, supports autosomal dominant inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
kawashima tsuji syndrome	This syndrome has manifestations of microcephaly, deafness, intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism (facial asymmetry, prominent glabella, low-set and cup-shaped ears, protruding lower lip, micrognathia). It has been described in a mother and her son. The mode of inheritance is probably autosomal dominant.
nfdr syndrome	A multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of neurological abnormalities (including megalencephaly, hypotonia, intellectual disability, abnormal EEG), dysmorphic facial features (high prominent forehead, grooved nasal tip, ptosis, ear anomalies) and acrorenal defects (such as triphalangism, broad halluces, unilateral renal agenesis). Additionally, intrauterine growth restriction, short stature and congenital heart defects may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
freire maia pinheiro opitz syndrome	A multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of neurological abnormalities (including megalencephaly, hypotonia, intellectual disability, abnormal EEG), dysmorphic facial features (high prominent forehead, grooved nasal tip, ptosis, ear anomalies) and acrorenal defects (such as triphalangism, broad halluces, unilateral renal agenesis). Additionally, intrauterine growth restriction, short stature and congenital heart defects may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
norman roberts lissencephaly syndrome	Lissencephaly syndrome, Norman-Roberts type is the association of lissencephaly type I with craniofacial anomalies (severe microcephaly, a low sloping forehead, a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes) and postnatal growth retardation. Severe intellectual deficit, spasticity and epilepsy are also present. Mutations in the RELN gene (7q22) have been identified in some patients. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
juberg-hayward syndrome	A polymalformation syndrome that associates multiple skeletal anomalies with microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, urogenital anomalies and intellectual deficit.
ritscher schinzel syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
smith fineman myers syndrome	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X caracterizado por dismorfismo facial (fisuras palpebrales inclinadas, cara estrecha, micrognatia, labio inferior distendido, filtrum plano o pequeño y exotropía y ptosis alternantes), baja estatura, hipotonía temprana y posteriormente hipertonía, incisivos centrales superiores prominentes, deformidades de los pies (pie plano, metatarso varo, equinovaro), retraso psicomotor y problemas de conducta. Se desconoce la prevalencia. Desde la descripción inicial en 1980 el trastorno se describió en varones de 11 familias y en un caso aislado. En la mayoría de los casos el síndrome se produce por mutaciones en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3); sin embargo, el gen causal en una gran familia china se localizó en un intervalo de 19,8 Mb sobre Xq25. La transmisión es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
teebi hypertelorism syndrome	A rare genetic disease with characteristics of hypertelorism with facial features that can closely resemble craniofrontonasal dysplasia, such as prominent forehead, widow's peak, heavy and broad eyebrows, long palpebral fissures, ptosis, high and broad nasal bridge, short nose, low-set ears, natal teeth, thin upper lip and a grooved chin. Limb features include fifth-finger clinodactyly, pes adductus, mild interdigital webbing. Urogenital features include bilateral cryptorchidism and shawl scrotum in males. Other manifestations include umbilical hernia/omphalocele and cardiac defects. Psychomotor development is normal.
acromelic frontonasal dysplasia	A rare variant of frontonasal dysplasia characterized by distinct craniofacial (large fontanelle, hypertelorism, bifid nasal tip, nasal clefting, brachycephaly, median cleft face, carp-shaped mouth), brain (interhemispheric lipoma, agenesis of the corpus callosum), and limb (tibial hypoplasia/aplasia, club foot, symmetric preaxial polydactyly of the feet and bilateral clubbed and thickened nail malformations as well as intellectual disability.
van den bosch syndrome	Syndrome that is characterized by intellectual deficit, choroideremia, acrokeratosis verruciformis, anhidrosis, and skeletal deformities. It has been observed in a single kindred. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked recessive trait and may be caused by a small X-chromosome deletion.
bohring-opitz syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, failure to thrive, facial dysmorphism, flexion deformities of the elbows and wrists, camptodactyly, ulnar deviation of the fingers, foot anomalies and severe developmental delay. Less than 20 patients have been described so far. Although the large majority of reported cases occurred sporadically, autosomal recessive inheritance has also been reported.
young hughes syndrome	A rare X-linked intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of intellectual disability associated with short stature, obesity, primary hypogonadism and an ichthyosiform skin condition. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1982.
l-tga	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
fetal akinesia deformation sequence	Decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures, facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia. Ultrasound examination may reveal polyhydramnios, ankylosis, scalp edema, and decreased chest movements (reflecting pulmonary hypoplasia). [HPO:probinson]
talipes nos	A deformity of foot and ankle that has different subtypes that are talipes equinovarus, talipes equinovalgus, talipes calcaneovarus and talipes calcaneovalgus. [HPO:sdoelken]
exumbilication	A HERNIA due to an imperfect closure or weakness of the umbilical ring. It appears as a skin-covered protrusion at the UMBILICUS during crying, coughing, or straining. The hernia generally consists of OMENTUM or SMALL INTESTINE. The vast majority of umbilical hernias are congenital but can be acquired due to severe abdominal distention.
abnormality of the placenta	An abnormality of the placenta, the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange. [HPO:probinson]
revesz syndrome	A rare severe phenotypic variant of dyskeratosis congenita with onset in early childhood. The syndrome has features of dyskeratosis congenita (for example skin hyper/hypopigmentation, nail dystrophy, high risk of bone marrow failure and cancer, developmental delay sparse and fine hair) in conjunction with bilateral exudative retinopathy and intracranial calcifications.
loc syndrome	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
sertoli cell only syndrome	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
thumb polydactyly	Supernumerary digits located at the radial side of the hand. Polydactyly (supernumerary digits) involving the thumb occurs in many distinct forms of high variability and severity. Ranging from fleshy nubbins over varying degrees of partial duplication/splitting to completely duplicated or even triplicated thumbs or preaxial (on the radial side of the hand) supernumerary digits. [HPO:probinson]
sinodonty	Incisor that has marked lateral borders occurring lingually.
kurczynski casperson syndrome	Congenital craniostenosis with syndactyly.
papillon-leage and psaume syndrome	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
gorlin psaume syndrome	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
urethral meatus underneath penis	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
navajo brainstem syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of deafness, central hypoventilation, congenital ocular paralysis and developmental retardation. Cardiac anomalies and paralysis of the vocal chords may also be present. Six cases have been reported so far. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
van maldergem syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with mild to severe intellectual disability, a distinctive facial gestalt (blepharophimosis, maxillary hypoplasia, telecanthus, microtia and atresia of the external auditory meatus) as well as skeletal and articular abnormalities (e.g. camptodactyly of the fingers, cutaneous syndactyly, talipes equinovarus, flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints, hip or elbow subluxation, joint laxity). May also present with neonatal hypotonia, variable respiratory manifestations, chronic feeding difficulties and gray matter heterotopia.
cold-induced sweating syndrome	A severe disorder with characteristics of muscular contractions at birth, intermittent hyperthermia, facial abnormalities and camptodactyly. Since the first description of the disease in 1996, it has been described in less than 30 patients from 13 Italian (mainly Sardinian) families. Extensive paroxysmal muscular contractions in the face (resembling neonatal tetanus) develop after minimal stimuli. All patients described to date displayed facial anomalies, including a large face, chubby cheeks, a broad nose with anteverted nostrils and long philtrum and bilateral camptodactyly. Early in the neonatal period continuous hyperthermia develops (unrelated to infectious agents). Mutations in the CRLF1 gene are causative. Belongs to a group of conditions with overlapping features, including cold-induced sweating syndromes and Stüve-Wiedemann syndrome. The disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
naxos disease	A recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy and a cutaneous phenotype with manifestation of peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma. The disease was first described in families originating from the Greek island of Naxos. Woolly hair appears from birth, palmoplantar keratoderma develops during the first year of life and cardiomyopathy is clinically manifested by adolescence with 100% penetrance. Symptoms of right heart failure appear during the end stages of the disease.
van den ende-gupta syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, arachnodactyly, joint contractures and dysmorphic features. Ten cases from seven families have been reported in the literature. The dysmorphic features include narrow nose with hypoplastic alae nasi, hypoplastic maxilla, everted lower lip, blepharophimosis, large ears and high-arched or cleft palate. The affected patients can have learning disabilities. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
microphthalmia with facial clefting	A very rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia, cleft lip/palate, facial cleft and sacral neural tube defects, along with various additional anomalies including congenital glaucoma, iris coloboma, primary hyperplastic vitreous, hypertelorism, low-set ears, clinodactyly, choanal atresia/stenosis, dysgenesis of sacrum, tethering of spinal cord, syringomyelia, hypoplasia of corpus callosum, cerebral ventriculomegaly and endocrine abnormalities. An autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested.
figuera syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
oculopharyngeal distal myopathy	A rare genetic neuromuscular disease with characteristics of progressive external ocular, facial and pharyngeal muscle weakness, leading to variable degrees of ptosis, ophthalmoparesis, facial muscle atrophy, dysarthria and dysphagia, as well as distal muscle weakness and atrophy of lower and upper extremities. Respiratory muscle involvement is common, but sensorineural hearing loss, asymmetrical extremity weakness and severe proximal weakness are rare.
pai syndrome	An idiopathic developmental disorder with characteristics of median cleft of the upper lip, midline polyps of the facial skin and nasal mucosa and pericallosal lipomas. Hypertelorism with ocular anomalies are also observed, generally with normal neuropsychological development. Presents at birth with a variable phenotype ranging from mild facial dysmorphism to more severe anomalies resembling frontonasal dysplasia. Normal neuropsychological development was reported in all but one case that presented with epileptic seizures. Sacral dimples may be observed at birth, and hypospadias has been reported in some male patients.
ichthyosis prematurity syndrome	A rare syndromic congenital ichthyosis with characteristics of premature birth in addition to thick caseous and desquamating epidermis, neonatal respiratory asphyxia and persistent eosinophilia. After the perinatal period, a spontaneous improvement in the health of affected patients is observed and skin features (vernix caseosa-like scale) evolve into a mild presentation of flat follicular hyperkeratosis with atopy. The disease is caused by mutation in the FATP4 (SLC27A4) gene.
tarp syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of Robin sequence (micrognathia, glossoptosis, cleft palate), atrial septal defect, persistence of the left superior vena cava and talipes equinovarus. The phenotype is variable, some patients present with further dysmorphic characteristics (e.g. hypertelorism, ear abnormalities) while others do not have any key findings. Additional features, such as syndactyly, polydactyly, or brain anomalies (e.g. cerebellar hypoplasia), have also been reported. The syndrome is almost invariably lethal with affected males either dying prenatally or living just a few months. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by mutation in the RBM10 gene on chromosome Xp11.23.
single maxillary central incisor	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
solitary median maxillary central incisor	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
ichthyosis cheek eyebrow syndrome	This syndrome has features of ichthyosis, prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows. It has been described in several individuals from four generations of one family. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
hemifacial hyperplasia with strabismus	A malformation syndrome involving the abnormal growth of the facial skeleton as well as its soft tissue structure and organs. The syndrome has characteristics of mild facial asymmetry with unaffected neurocranium and eyeballs, along with esotropia, amblyopia and/or convergent strabismus and occasionally submucous cleft palate. Transmission is autosomal dominant. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1979.
daneman davy mancer syndrome	A very rare syndrome characterised by the association of multinodular goitre, cystic renal disease and digital anomalies. It has been described in two siblings and one unrelated child. The two siblings had digitalised thumbs and preaxial polydactyly, the third child had normal thumbs and postaxial polydactyly. Goitre and/or digitalised thumbs and/or polydactyly were present in other members of families. This syndrome seems to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with variable expression and incomplete penetrance.
venous malformations with glomus cells	Hereditary vascular malformations featuring the presence of small, multifocal bluish-purple venous lesions involving the skin. May be present at birth, and slowly expand during childhood. New small lesions appear with time. Often painful on palpation and cannot be completely emptied by compression. They are usually multifocal and are located mainly on the extremities, involving the skin and subcutis. Caused by mutations in the gene encoding glomulin and inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
nablus mask-like facial syndrome	A rare microdeletion syndrome associated with a distinct facial appearance. It has been reported in four unrelated patients. A mask-like facial appearance is the most characteristic feature with blepharophimosis, tight appearing glistening facial skin, flat and broad nose, dysplastic ears and unusual scalp hair pattern. Camptodactyly, joint contractures, unusual dentition and mild developmental delay can be observed. Cryptorchidism in boys and a happy disposition are constant.
infantile-onset x-linked spinal muscular atrophy	A rare form of spinal muscular atrophy with characteristics of the neonatal onset of severe hypotonia, areflexia, profound weakness, multiple congenital contractures, facial dysmorphic features (myopathic face with open, tent-shaped mouth), cryptorchidism, and mild skeletal abnormalities (kyphosis, scoliosis), that is often preceded by polyhydramnios and reduced fetal movements in utero and followed by bone fractures shortly after birth. Patients have a limited life span, often succumbing to the disease within 2 years, as muscle weakness is progressive and chest muscle involvement eventually leads to ventilatory insufficiency and respiratory failure.
congenital bilateral perisylvian syndrome	A type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that affects both sides of the brain. [COST:neuromig, PMID:20301504]
amme syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of Alport syndrome, midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit and elliptocytosis. It has been described in two families. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked trait is caused by a contiguous gene deletion in Xq22.3 involving several genes including COL4A5, FACL4 and AMMECR1.
intellectual disability wolff type	A rare intellectual disability syndrome with manifestations of severe intellectual disability, characteristic facial features (low anterior hairline, upward slanting palpebral fissures, ocular hypertelorism, broad, bulbous nose, large ears with helix incompletely developed, thick lips, and micrognathia) and additional anomalies including peripheral joint contractures, delayed skeletal maturation, bilateral cleft lip and palate, strabismus, terminal hypoplasia of fingers, hypospadias, and bilateral inguinal hernias.
knobloch syndrome	Knobloch syndrome is defined by vitreoretinal and macular degeneration, and occipital encephalocele. The disease has characteristics of early-onset severe myopia (usually becoming apparent in the first year of life), vitreoretinal degeneration with retinal detachment, macular abnormalities, and midline encephalocele (mainly in the occipital region). The syndrome is clinically and genetically heterogeneous with three forms, KNO1, KNO2 and KNO3, being defined. KNO1 is caused by inactivating mutations in the collagen XVIII/endostatin gene (COL18A1) mapped to 21q22.3. The KNO2 form was defined when linkage to the KNO1 locus was excluded in a family reported from New Zealand. Recently, a novel type of KS (KNO3) was mapped to chromosome 17q11.2. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
cousin syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of pelviscapular dysplasia with epiphyseal abnormalities, congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism. The facial dysmorphism has manifestations of frontal bossing, hypertelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, deep-set eyes, strabismus, low-set posteriorly rotated and malformed ears, dysplasia of conchae, a small chin, a short neck with redundant skin folds, and a low hairline. Intelligence may vary from normal to moderately impaired. Radiographic features comprise aplasia of the body of the scapula, hypoplasia of the iliac bone, humeroradial synostosis, dislocation of the femoral heads, and moderate brachydactyly. Mutations in the TBX15 gene have been identified as potentially causative. Pelviscapular dysplasia is phenotypically similar to pelvis-shoulder dysplasia.
lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia	A rare disorder defined by generalised osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation, characteristic facial dysmorphism, brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications, and neonatal lethal course. Mutations in the FAM20C gene have a causative role in lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
czeizel syndrome	Syndrome with the association of omphalocele and cleft palate. It has been described in three daughters of normal unrelated parents. They were all diagnosed at birth. This syndrome is likely to be inherited as an autosomal recessive condition.
opc dwarfism	The association of four anomalies: intellectual deficit, microcephaly, palate anomalies and ocular abnormalities. It has been described in five patients (three boys and two girls). The clinical manifestations are evident from birth. The palate anomaly is usually cleft palate. In the majority of cases, postnatal growth is marked by statural and ponderal retardation. Microcephaly is present in all patients.Persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous was present in all cases reported so far. Facial dysmorphology has characteristics of full cheeks, a bulbous nasal tip and long ears with thickened helices. Hands and feet are small. Anomalies of the external genitalia were reported in some of the male patients, with two of the boys displaying cryptorchidism. Skeletal anomalies include pectus excavatum, joint hyperlaxity and kyphoscoliosis. Intellectual deficit (moderate to severe) is a constant feature. So far, neither a causative gene nor locus has been identified.
dahlberg borer newcomer syndrome	A very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome, described in 2 adult brothers, characterised by the association of hypoparathyroidism, nephropathy, congenital lymphoedema, mitral valve prolapse and brachytelephalangy. Additional features include mild facial dysmorphism, hypertrichosis and nail abnormalities.
haim-munk syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, severe early-onset periodontitis, onychogryposis, pes planus, arachnodactyly and acroosteolysis. The syndrome presents with severe and extensive skin manifestations. Severe, early-onset progressive periodontitis that affects both the deciduous and permanent dentitions and presents with gingival inflammation and alveolar bone destruction is a hallmark of the disease. Onychogryposis, arachnodactyly, acroosteolysis and pes planus are additional features that help to distinguish from other forms of palmoplantar hyperkeratosis. The syndrome is caused by germline mutations in the lysosomal protease cathepsin C (CTSC) gene mapped to chromosome 11q14.1-q14.3. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
mowat-wilson syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the ZEB2 gene. It is characterized by mental retardation, and a distinctive facial appearance (wide set eyes, uplifted earlobes, broad nasal bridge, prominent chin, and a smiling expression). The majority of patients have Hirschsprung disease (colonic enlargement and constipation due to intestinal blockage).
heimler syndrome	This syndrome is characterised by sensorineural hearing loss, generalised enamel hypoplasia of the permanent dentition with normal primary dentition and nail defects (Beau's lines and leukonychia). Less than 10 patients have been described so far. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
fuhrmann rieger de sousa syndrome	This syndrome has main characteristics of bowing of the femora, aplasia or hypoplasia of the fibulae and poly, oligo and syndactyly. It has been reported in 11 patients. Most of the patients also had a hypoplastic pelvis and hypoplasia of the fingers and fingernails. Some had congenital dislocation of the hip, absence or fusion of tarsal bones, absence of various metatarsals and hypoplasia and aplasia of the toes. The syndrome is caused by a partial loss of WNT7A function (gene mapped to 3p25).
teebi naguib alawadi syndrome	A very rare syndrome including short stature, facial dysmorphism, hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum. It has been observed in 16 subjects from five distantly related sibships of a large Kuwaiti Bedouin tribe. The affected patients had no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
pfeiffer cardiocranial syndrome	An extremely rare disorder found in less than ten patients worldwide with characteristics of congenital heart defect, sagittal craniosynostosis and severe developmental delay. Genital and renal anomalies, and various dysmorphic features may be present. Joint and palpebral abnormalities may also occur. The occurrence of the syndrome in a brother-sister sibship supports the hypothesis of autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance and submicroscopic deletions have also been proposed as possible causes.
mcgrath syndrome	A suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterized by generalized superficial erosions and less commonly blistering. Prevalence is unknown but 11 cases have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth with skin blistering and generalized erythema which rapidly regresses. The disease is due to mutations in the PKP1 (1q32) gene encoding plakophilin-1. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
cerebellar ataxia and ectodermal dysplasia	A very rare disease, characterized by hypodontia and sparse hair in combination with cerebellar ataxia and normal intelligence. Imaging demonstrates cerebellar atrophy.
beemer ertbruggen syndrome	A lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first-cousin parents with characteristics of hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bones and unusual facies with down-slanting palpebral fissures, bulbous nose, broad nasal bridge, micrognathia and a long upper lip. Transmission is likely autosomal recessive. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1984.
illium syndrome	An extremely rare type of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita with the combination of multiple joint contractures with movement limitation and microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth that may cause feeding, swallowing and speech difficulties, a distinctive expressionless facies, severe developmental delay, central and autonomous nervous system dysfunction, occasionally Pierre-Robin sequence and lethality generally occurring during the first months of life.
kaplan plauchu fitch syndrome	A very rare form of acrofacial dysostosis, reported in two sisters to date, with characteristics of short stature, acrocephaly, ocular hypertelorism, ptosis of eyelids, ocular proptosis, downslanting palpebral fissures, high nasal bridge, anteverted nostrils, short philtrum, cleft palate, micrognathia, abnormal external ears, preauricular pits, mixed hearing loss, bulbous digits, metatarsus varus, pectus excavatum and various radiological abnormalities. Features of this syndrome were reported to overlap with otopalatodigital syndrome types 1 and 2. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
ackerman syndrome	Ackerman syndrome has characteristics of pyramidal molar roots and taurodontism associated with variable anomalies. It has been described in two generations of one family. Both parents and their six siblings had pyramidal, taurodont or fused molar roots. Some of the patients also had hypotrichosis, an abnormal upper lip, thickened and wide philtrum, and/or juvenile glaucoma. Other features included entropion of the eyelid, syndactyly and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers.
anterior chamber malformation	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
adult syndrome	The ADULT (acro-dermato-ungual-lacrimal-tooth) syndrome has characteristics of ectrodactyly, excessive freckling, onychodysplasia, obstruction of lacrimal ducts and hypodontia and/or early loss of permanent teeth. Variable clinical expression is observed. Fourteen cases have been described so far. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
f syndrome	A skeletal dysplasia with characteristics of fusion of the carpal and tarsal bones and complex anomalies of the fingers and toes. It has been described in less than 30 patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations include prominence of the sternum with variable pectus excavatum, lumbosacral spina bifida occulta, minor craniofacial anomalies and mild intellectual deficit. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with full penetrance. The causative gene has been mapped to chromosome region 2q36.
acrpv	A skeletal dysplasia with characteristics of fusion of the carpal and tarsal bones and complex anomalies of the fingers and toes. It has been described in less than 30 patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations include prominence of the sternum with variable pectus excavatum, lumbosacral spina bifida occulta, minor craniofacial anomalies and mild intellectual deficit. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with full penetrance. The causative gene has been mapped to chromosome region 2q36.
mental retardation unusual facies hypothyroidism	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
frias syndrome	A rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of ocular anomalies (anophthalmia/microphthalmia, ptosis, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), pituitary anomalies (pituitary hypoplasia/aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation) and hand/foot anomalies (polydactyly, short digits, pes cavus). Other clinical features may include muscular hypotonia, psychomotor development delay/intellectual disability, dysmorphic signs (facial asymmetry, microretrognathia, high-arched palate, ear anomalies), congenital genitourinary malformations and hearing impairment. Smaller 14q22 deletions may have variable expression.
klick	An inherited epidermal disorder with characteristics of palmoplantar keratoderma, linear hyperkeratotic papules on the flexural side of large joints (cord-like distribution around wrists, in antecubital and popliteal folds), hyperkeratotic plaques (on neck, axillae, elbows, wrists, and knees), mild ichthyosiform scaling, and sclerotic constrictions around fingers that present flexural deformities. The disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the POMP gene.
steinfeld syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of holoprosencephaly, predominantly radial limb deficiency (absent thumbs, phocomelia), heart defects, kidney malformations and absence of gallbladder. It has been described in two families (with at least seven affected persons). Variable manifestations include vertebral anomalies, cleft lip/palate, microphthalmia, absent nose, dysplastic ears, hearing loss, colobomas of the iris and retina and/or bifid uvula. Inheritance is likely to be autosomal dominant with variable expressivity.
nystagmus-split hand syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of split-hand and split-foot deformity and ocular abnormalities mainly a congenital nystagmus. Ten cases from four families have been reported in the literature. In some cases the hands are monodactylous. The affected patients have normal mental development. The condition seems to be autosomal dominant with a relatively high proportion of gonadal mosaicism.
omphalocele syndrome shprintzen goldberg type	A very rare inherited malformation syndrome with characteristics of omphalocele, scoliosis, mild dysmorphic features (downslanted palpebral fissures, s-shaped eyelids and thin upper lip), laryngeal and pharyngeal hypoplasia and learning disabilities.
scholte begeer-van essen syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, patella luxations, acromicria, hypogonadism, facial dysmorphism (including midface hypoplasia and premature frontotemporal balding). It has been described in three unrelated males.
ofds v	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
catlin marks	A developmental defect with manifestation of variable intramembranous ossification defects of the parietal bones, which is asymptomatic, symptomatic or associated with other pathologies. A congenital disorder caused by insufficient ossification around the parietal notch. In most cases this results from heterozygous loss of function mutations in human homeobox genes, MSX2 (5q35.2) and ALX4 (11p11.2), which encode transcription factors involved in skeletal development. Transmission is autosomal dominant with high but incomplete penetrance.
agyria diffuse	A congenital abnormality of the cerebral hemisphere characterized by lack of gyrations (convolutions) of the cerebral cortex. Agyria is defined as cortical regions lacking gyration with sulci great than 3 cm apart and cerebral cortex thicker than 5 mm. [COST:neuromig]
buried ear	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
tatoo dysplasia	An extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in about 5 patients to date with clinical signs including short stature, peculiar facies with blepharophimosis, upward slanted eyes, abundant eyebrows and eyelashes, coarse voice, and short hands and feet.
temple-baraitser syndrome	A rare developmental anomaly syndrome with characteristics of severe intellectual disability and distal hypoplasia of digits, particularly of thumbs and halluces, with nail aplasia or hypoplasia. Facial dysmorphism with a pseudo-myopathic appearance has been reported, which may include high anterior hairline or low frontal hairline with central cowlick, flat forehead, ptosis, hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds, ears with thick helices, broad depressed nasal bridge with anteverted nares, short columella, long philtrum, high-arched palate, broad mouth with thick vermilion border of the upper or the lower lip and downturned corners. Marked hypotonia, seizures and global developmental delay have been reported, associated with autistic spectrum disorder manifestations in some patients.
serkal syndrome	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
ofds vi	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
oculootodental syndrome	A contiguous gene syndrome comprising otodental syndrome (globodontia and sensorineural high-frequency hearing deficit) associated with eye abnormalities typically including iris and chorioretinal coloboma and sometimes microcornea, microphthalmos, lenticular opacity, lens coloboma and iris pigment epithelial atrophy.
lopez-gutierrez syndrome	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
cloves syndrome	CLOVE syndrome has characteristics of congenital lipomatous overgrowth, progressive, complex and mixed truncal vascular malformations and epidermal nevi. To date, less than 15 cases have been reported in the literature. Patients also present with disproportionate fat distribution. CLOVE syndrome may be associated with varying degrees of scoliosis and enlarged bony structures without progressive bony overgrowth. The presence of scoliosis/skeletal manifestations has led to the suggestion that the acronym CLOVE should be expanded to CLOVES.
hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia halal type	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of trichodysplasia, with absent eyebrows and eyelashes, onychodysplasia, mild retrognathia, abnormal dermatoglyphics (excess of whorls on fingertips, radial loop on finger, hypothenar pattern), intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating. Additional variable manifestations include high implanted or prominent ears, mild hearing loss, supernumerary nipple, café-au-lait spots, keratosis pilaris, and irregular menses. To date, four individuals from 2 generations of a consanguineous family of Portuguese descent have been described in the literature. Males and females were equally affected. Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, Halal type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
halal setton wang syndrome	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of trichodysplasia, with absent eyebrows and eyelashes, onychodysplasia, mild retrognathia, abnormal dermatoglyphics (excess of whorls on fingertips, radial loop on finger, hypothenar pattern), intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating. Additional variable manifestations include high implanted or prominent ears, mild hearing loss, supernumerary nipple, café-au-lait spots, keratosis pilaris, and irregular menses. To date, four individuals from 2 generations of a consanguineous family of Portuguese descent have been described in the literature. Males and females were equally affected. Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, Halal type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
halal syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by the combination of microcephaly, cleft palate, and variable anomalies such as unusual facial appearance, hypotelorism, abnormal retinal pigmentation, maxillary hypoplasia, goiter, camptodactyly, mild intellectual deficit, and abnormal dermatoglyphics. It has been described only once; in two sisters and their mother. Although microcephaly and intellectual deficit are frequently associated with cleft palate, the other features of these patients are in favour of this syndrome being an entity per se. The mode of inheritance is autosomal or X-linked dominant.
familial multiple nevi flammei	A rare genetic capillary malformation characterised by dark red to purple birthmarks which manifest as flat, sharply circumscribed cutaneous lesions, typically situated in the head and neck region, in various members of a single family. The lesions grow proportionally with the individual, change in colour and often thicken with age. There is evidence that congenital capillary malformations can be caused by somatic mosaic mutation in the GNAQ gene on chromosome 9q21.
rozin hertz goodman syndrome	The association of camptodactyly, multiple eye defects (fibrosis of the medial rectus muscle, severe myopia, ptosis and exophthalmos), scoliosis, flexion contractures and facial anomalies (arched eyebrows, facial asymmetry with an abnormal skull shape, a prominent nose, small mouth, low-set and dysplastic ears, and a low nuchal hairline). Only four cases have been reported in the literature so far. The mode of inheritance remains to be confirmed, but both autosomal dominant and recessive transmission have been considered.
karandikar maria kamble syndrome	This syndrome has main feature of congenital cataracts with squint, intellectual deficit, anomalies of the genitourinary tract (rectovesical fistula, micropenis, undescended testis, and hypospadias), imperforate anus and other anomalies. It has been described in three siblings born to nonconsanguineous parents. It is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
zlotogora zilberman tenenbaum syndrome	A very rare genetic disorder characterized by cleft lip and palate, sparse scalp hair, and partial syndactyly of the fingers and toes.
bifidum; sternum	The sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum. [HPO:probinson]
krauss herman holmes syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of telecanthus, hypertelorism, strabismus, pes cavus and other variable anomalies. It has been described in a father and his son. The son also had hypospadias, bilateral inguinal hernia, clinodactyly and camptodactyly of the fingers. Radiographic findings including flared metaphyses of the long bones and osteopenia.
russell weaver bull syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of congenital manifestations of both oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum and caudal regression sequence. Phenotype is highly variable but patients typically present facial dysmorphism (including asymmetry, hypertelorism), auricular abnormalities (for example preauricular tags, microtia, absence of middle ear ossicles), skeletal malformations (hemivertebrae, hip dislocation, sacral agenesis/dysplasia, talipes equinovarus, flexion deformity of lower limbs), cardiac defects (dextrocardia, septal defects), renal and genitourinary anomalies (such as renal agenesis/dysplasia, abnormal external genitalia) along with anal anomalies such as anal atresia and rectovesical fistula.
hernández aguirre-negrete syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of major seizures, dysmorphic features (round face, bulbous nose, wide mouth, prominent philtrum), pes planus, psychomotor retardation and obesity. It has been described in five children (three boys and two girls, one of whom died in infancy) from two unrelated Mexican families.
ladda zonana ramer syndrome	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of severe arthrogryposis, multiple ectodermal dysplasia features, cleft lip/palate, facial dysmorphism, growth deficiency and a moderate delay of psychomotor development. Ectodermal dysplasia manifestations include sparse, brittle and hypopigmented hair, xerosis, multiple nevi, small conical shaped teeth and hypodontia, and facial dysmorphism with blepharophimosis, deep-set eyes and micrognathia.
mcpherson clemens syndrome	A multiple congenital anomaly syndrome described in 5 patients to date. Characteristics include flat face, hypertelorism, flat occiput, upward slanting palpebral fissures, cleft palate, micrognathia, short neck, and severe congenital heart defects, which were lethal in 3 of the 5 patients. Malrotation of the intestine, bilateral clinodactyly, bilobed tongue, short fourth metatarsals and bifid thumbs were reported in individual cases. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
rildbc	An inherited disorder with characteristics of widespread calcifications of the basal ganglia and cortex, developmental delay, small stature, retinopathy and microcephaly. The absence of progressive deterioration of the neurological functions is characteristic of the disease. The syndrome has been described in eight children from two interrelated families. The disorder is associated with a genetic locus on chromosome 2 and transmission is autosomal recessive.
mammary digital nail syndrome	A syndromic limb malformation characterised by congenital onychodystrophy/anonychia, brachydactyly of the fifth finger, digitalisation of the thumbs, with absence or hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the hands and feet in association with juvenile hypertrophy of the breast with gigantomastia in peripubertal females.
atrial situs ambiguus	Common atrium without defining morphologic features. [DDD:dbrown]
doubly committed ventricular septal defect	A ventricular septal defect that lies beneath the semilunar valve(s) in the conal or outlet septum. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:10798413]
congenital iodine deficiency hypothyroidism	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth and caused by iodine deficiency.
waardenburg	rare, autosomal dominant disease with variable penetrance and several known clinical subtypes; characteristics may include depigmentation of the hair and skin, congenital deafness, heterochromia iridis, medial eyebrow hyperplasia, hypertrophy of the nasal root, and especially dystopia canthorum; the underlying cause may be defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy); may be closely related to piebaldism; Klein-Waardenburg Syndrome refers to a disorder that also includes upper limb abnormalities.
cervical meningomyelocele	A congenital abnormality in the cervical region of the spine in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
poorly mineralized tooth enamel	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
diabetic embryopathy	A condition in which the offspring of a mother with diabetes predating pregnancy develops congenital malformations that can affect multiple organ systems including the brain and spinal cord, the heart and major vessels, the kidneys, the gut, and skeletal structures.
transitional lumbosacral vertebra	Condition with either the sacralization of the lowest lumbar segment or the lumbarization of the most superior sacral segment of the spine.
poretti boltshauser syndrome	A rare neuro-ophthalmological disease with characteristics of nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia, delayed motor and language development and intellectual disability in addition to ophthalmological abnormalities (e.g. oculomotor apraxia, strabismus, amblyopia, retinal dystrophy and myopia). Cerebellar cysts, cerebellar dysplasia and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, seen on magnetic resonance imaging, are also characteristic of the disease. Caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the LAMA1 gene on chromosome 18p11.
partial atrioventricular canal	A specific combination of heart defects including a primum atrial septal defect and cleft anterior mitral valve leaflet. There is not an inlet ventricular septal defect present. There are two valve annuluses and two valve orifices. [DDD:dbrown]
unna-thost disease	An autosomally dominant inherited form of palmoplantar keratoderma that is characterized by a non-gradient diffuse pattern and often, hyperhidrosis of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It does not extend beyond the palms, knucklels pads, nails, and the soles.
pituitary stalk interruption syndrome	A syndrome characterized by hypoplastic or aplastic anterior pituitary gland, a very thin or interrupted pituitary stalk, and ectopic or absent posterior pituitary gland, which may be associated with mutation(s) in the HESX1 or LHX4 genes.
branchiootic dysplasia	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of second branchial arch anomalies (branchial cysts and fistulae), malformations of the outer, middle and inner ear associated with sensorineural, mixed or conductive hearing loss and the absence of renal abnormalities. Typical ear findings consist of malformed auricles (lop or cupped ears), preauricular pits and/or tags, and middle and/or inner ear dysplasias (including cochlear, vestibular and semicircular channel hypoplasia, malformation of the ossicles and of middle ear space).
foetal iodine syndrome	Fetal iodine syndrome is a group of symptoms that may be observed in a fetus or newborn when the mother was exposed during pregnancy to inappropriate (excessive or insufficient) amounts of iodine, a nonmetallic halogen element. Maternal iodine can be readily transferred to the fetus, and chronic maternal exposure to iodine can lead to hypothyroidism and goitre in the offspring. The majority of the reported fatalities caused by iodine intoxication resulted from the use of iodine-containing expectorants during pregnancy. Based on these observations, the repeated or routine use of iodine-containing products is not recommended during pregnancy. In addition to the problems associated with iodine intoxication, iodine deficiency during pregnancy may be severe enough to produce hypothyroidism in the fetus.
syndromic orbital border hypoplasia	Syndromic orbital border hypoplasia is a rare disorder observed in two families to date with characteristics of agenesis of the orbital margin, varying defects of the lacrimal passages, hypoplasia of the palpebral skin and tarsal plates and atresia of the nasolacrimal duct.
partington disease	An extremely rare skin disease described in only four families to date and characterised in males by diffuse reticulate brown hyperpigmented skin lesions developing in early childhood and a variety of systemic manifestations (recurrent pneumonia, corneal opacification, gastrointestinal inflammation, urethral stricture, failure to thrive, hypohidrosis, digital clubbing, and unruly hair and flared eyebrows), while in females, there is only cutaneous involvement with the development in early childhood of localised brown hyperpigmented skin lesions following the lines of Blaschko. This disease was first considered as a cutaneous amyloidosis, but amyloid deposits are an inconstant feature.
familial hypospadias of penis	The displacement of the urethral meatus on the ventrum of the penis. This abnormality is associated with a varyingly bent, twisted penis and opened dorsal prepuce. This congenital malformation is not rare, with an estimated prevalence of 1/1000 births but familial forms account for only 10% of cases. Hypospadias is clinically more or less severe depending on the location of the urethral opening. Familial forms are identified by determining the medical history of the family.
congenital retraction of eyelid	A very rare kinetic eyelid anomaly that can affect the upper or lower eyelid, presents at birth, that in some cases can result in corneal exposure, and that may be associated with accessory levator muscle slips.
ischio-spinal dysostosis	Very rare poorly-defined bone disease with manifestation of ischial aplasia or hypoplasia, vertebral anomalies (vertebral malsegmentation, kyphoscoliosis), and in some patients, non-distinctive facial dysmorphism.
thong douglas ferrante syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature, sensorineural deafness, mutism, facial dysmorphism and abnormal neutrophil chemotaxis (leading to recurrent infections). It has been described in two siblings.
goldblatt wallis syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in three brothers of one South-African family, and with features of hypospadias and intellectual deficit, in association with microcephaly, craniofacial dysmorphism, joint laxity and beaked nails
wellesley carman french syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by cataracts and short stature associated with variable anomalies, including aberrant oral frenula, a characteristic facial appearance (posteriorly angulated ears, upslanting palpebral fissures, small nose, ptosis and epicanthal folds) cavernous haemangiomas and hernias. It has been described in a mother and her two children. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
petit fryns syndrome	Rare disorder with features of severe resorption of the hands and feet and absence of the distal and middle phalanges. Other manifestations include distal muscular hypertrophy, flexion contractures, short stature, mild intellectual deficit and characteristic facies (maxillary hypoplasia, exophthalmos, and a broad nasal tip). It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
foetal indomethacin syndrome	A group of symptoms which may be observed in the fetus or newborn when the mother has taken indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug during pregnancy. The drug crosses the human placenta readily throughout gestation, but its effects on the embryo/fetus vary according to the stage of pregnancy.
orofaciodigital syndrome edwards type	Syndrome with characteristics of tongue lobulation, hypoplasia of the epiglottis, median cleft upper lip, broad or bifid nasal tip, hypertelorism or telecanthus, bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly, abnormal tibia and/or radius, duplication of the halluces, short stature and mild intellectual deficit. The syndrome has been described in one family with four affected males in three generations. Increased susceptibility to respiratory infections has been noted. X-linked recessive transmission has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
oral-facial-digital syndrome edwards type	Syndrome with characteristics of tongue lobulation, hypoplasia of the epiglottis, median cleft upper lip, broad or bifid nasal tip, hypertelorism or telecanthus, bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly, abnormal tibia and/or radius, duplication of the halluces, short stature and mild intellectual deficit. The syndrome has been described in one family with four affected males in three generations. Increased susceptibility to respiratory infections has been noted. X-linked recessive transmission has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
bakrania ragge syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of anophthalmia or microphthalmia, retinal dystrophy, and/or myopia, associated in some cases with cerebral anomalies. It has been described in two families. Polydactyly may also be present. Linkage analysis allowed identification of mutations in the BMP4 gene, which has already been shown to play a role in eye development.
cosack syndrome	A disorder belonging to the group of oromandibular-limb hypogenesis syndromes with the presence of an intraoral band of variable thickness attaching the tongue to the hard palate or maxillary alveolar ridge. The syndrome is very rare with less than 30 cases reported in the literature so far. Associated anomalies include cleft palate (in which case the tongue may be attached to the nasal septum), mandibular hypoplasia, upper-lip hypoplasia, hypodontia and variable limb anomalies (oligodactyly, syndactyly and polydactyly as well as more severe limb malformations). The syndrome appears to be sporadic.
fibular dimelia diplopodia syndrome	Fibular dimelia accompanied by complete tibial agenesis and mirror polydactyly or foot duplication is a rare developmental anomaly reported in at least 11 cases. It can be isolated or associated with ulnar dimelia, facial abnormalities and sacrococcygeal teratoma. The cause is unknown, but has been suggested that a teratogenic event occurs as developmental specification reaches the level of the future knee. A central role for the mesenchymal precursor, from which chondro-osseous morphology emerges, has also been suggested. Treatment is surgical and prosthesis is needed in order to improve the quality of life of affected children.
cardiomyopathy and renal anomaly syndrome	The association of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with variable malformations of the urogenital tract. To date, it has been described in two brothers born to nonconsanguineous parents. One of the brothers also had dysgenesis of the corpus callosum. The mode of transmission is unknown but may be X-linked or autosomal recessive.
braddock syndrome	A rare malformation syndrome with multiple congenital abnormalities, described in 2 siblings, with characteristics of VATER-like association in combination with pulmonary hypertension, laryngeal webs, blue sclerae, abnormal ears, persistent growth deficiency and normal intellect.
cassia stocco dos santos syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome reported in the offsprings of a consanguineous couple with characteristics of multiple congenital skeletal, muscular, ocular and cardiac abnormalities. An autosomal recessive inheritance with variable expressivity was suspected. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
mathieu de broca bony syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in a father and son with the association of cleft palate, peculiar facies (asymmetrical appearance, inner epicanthal folds, short nose, anteverted nostrils, low and back-oriented ears, thin upper lip and micrognathism), short stature, short neck , vertebral anomalies and intellectual disability. The transmission is presumed to be autosomal dominant. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
trigonocephaly with broad thumb syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal trigonocephaly and multiple anomalies including craniosynostosis, shallow orbits, unusual nose, deviation of the terminal phalanges of fingers and broad toes with duplication of the terminal phalanx. It has been described in a mother and her son. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
x-linked intellectual disability armfield type	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficiency, short stature, seizures and small hands and feet. It has been described in six males from three generations of one family. Three of them also had cataracts and or glaucoma and two of them had cleft palate. The locus has been mapped to the terminal 8 Mb of Xq28.
x-linked intellectual disability stoll type	This syndrome has manifestations of intellectual deficit, short stature and characteristic facies (hypertelorism, prominent forehead, frontal bossing, a broad nasal tip and anteverted nares). It has been described in four males from three generations of the same family. Two females from this family also displayed intellectual deficit and the characteristic facies. Transmission is X-linked.
ahn lerman sagie syndrome	An extremely rare mitochondrial disorder with characteristics of facial dysmorphism similar to that seen in Zellweger syndrome. These features include frontal bossing, high forehead, up slanting palpebral fissures, hypoplastic supraorbital ridges, and epicanthal folds and in addition, pale skin, profound hypotonia, developmental delay and minor metabolic anomalies. No peroxisomal defects have been reported. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
acral self-healing collodion baby	A variant of self-healing collodion baby with manifestation of the presence at birth of a collodion membrane only at the extremities. Only 2 cases were described in the literature. In both cases, the babies healed soon after birth. In one case, molecular analysis was performed that revealed mutations in the TGM1 gene encoding transglutaminase 1, an enzyme involved in the cornification of the stratum corneum.
eco syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of various anomalies of the endocrine, cerebral, and skeletal systems resulting in neonatal mortality. Six cases from consanguineous parents have been described. Endocrine anomalies include hypoplasia of the adrenal and pituitary glands. Skeletal anomalies include micromelia, syndactyly, brachydactyly and ulnar deviation of hands. Facial anomalies, such as midface hypoplasia, micrognathia, and a flat and wide nasal bridge, are also observed. The disease is caused by mutations in the ICK gene, encoding an intestinal cell kinase. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
oerter friedman anderson syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the combination of endocrine and neuroectodermal abnormalities. These abnormalities include low growth hormone levels, delayed puberty, type II diabetes mellitus, mild intellectual deficit, sensorineural deafness, characteristic facial appearance and alopecia. It has been described in four siblings from Myanmar.
neuroectodermal endocrine syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the combination of endocrine and neuroectodermal abnormalities. These abnormalities include low growth hormone levels, delayed puberty, type II diabetes mellitus, mild intellectual deficit, sensorineural deafness, characteristic facial appearance and alopecia. It has been described in four siblings from Myanmar.
embryofetopathy caused by methimazole	A teratogenic embryofetopathy that results from maternal exposition to methimazole in the first trimester of pregnancy. Methimazole is an antithyroid thionamide drug used for the treatment of Graves' disease. In the infant, methimazole may result in choanal atresia, oesophageal atresia, omphalocele, omphalomesenteric duct anomalies, congenital heart disease (such as ventricular septal defect), renal system malformations and aplasia cutis. Additional features that may be observed include facial dysmorphism (short up slanting palpebral fissures, a broad nasal bridge with a small nose and a broad forehead) and athelia.
infantile osteopetrosis with neuroaxonal dysplasia	This syndrome has characteristics of osteopetrosis, agenesis of the corpus callosum, cerebral atrophy and a small hippocampus. It has been described in a brother and a sister born to nonconsanguineous Caucasian parents. The children died at the ages of 1 and 9 months, respectively. Several additional cases combining axonal dystrophy and osteopetrosis have been described.
cerebral gigantism jaw cysts syndrome	Syndrome that is characterized by cerebral gigantism associated with a jaw cyst basal cell nevoid syndrome. It has been reported in less than ten patients from two families. Neurological manifestations include hydrocephalus, ventricular malformation, a cerebellar syndrome, intracranial calcification, oculomotor disturbances and in some cases mild peripheral nervous disorders.
epilepsy telangiectasia syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, epilepsy, palpebral conjunctival telangiectasias and diminished serum immunoglobulin antibody, particular facies and a shortened fifth finger. It has been reported in six siblings from a Mexican family. It is probably transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
aphallus	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
developmental dislocation hip	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
tapvd	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
houlston ironton temple syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of atrioventricular septal defects and blepharophimosis, in addition to radial (e.g. aplastic radius, shortened ulna, fifth finger clinodactyly, absent first metacarpal and thumb) and anal (e.g. imperforate or anteriorly placed anus, rectovaginal fistula) defects.
congenital lymphangioma of larynx	A rare benign congenital malformation of the lymphatic system with a polypoidal, variable-sized, soft tissue mass located in the larynx. Most lesions manifest by the second year of life and depending on the size, patients may present with changes in voice, dysphagia, stridor, airway obstruction and/or respiratory distress. Cystic hygroma of the neck is frequently associated.
familial isolated trichomegaly	A rare genetic hair anomaly with characteristics of a prolonged anagen phase of the eyelash hairs, leading to extreme eyelash growth that may result in corneal irritation. Increased growth of hair on other parts of the face (eyebrows, cheeks, forehead) and/or the body (chest, arms, legs) may be associated. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the FGF5 gene on chromosome 4q21.
stratton garcia young syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, thin habitus with narrow shoulders, mesomelic shortness of the arms, craniofacial dysmorphism (for example long lower face, maxillary hypoplasia, beak nose, short columella, prognathia, high arched palate, obtuse mandibular angle), brachydactyly (mostly involving middle phalanges) and cardiovascular anomalies (such as aortic root dilatation, mitral valve prolapse).
diencephalic mesencephalic junction dysplasia	A rare genetic non-syndromic cerebral malformation with characteristics of severe intellectual disability, progressive postnatal microcephaly, axial hypotonia, spastic quadriparesis, seizures and facial dysmorphism (bushy eyebrows, hairy forehead, broad nasal root, long flat philtrum, V-shaped upper lip). Additionally, talipes equinovarus, non-obstructive cardiomyopathy, persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous, obstructive hydrocephalus and autistic features may also be associated. On brain magnetic resonance imaging, the 'butterfly sign' is characteristically observed and cortical calcifications, agenesis of the corpus callosum, ventriculomegaly, brainstem dysplasia and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia have also been described.
abnormalities congenital multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
failure of development of eyeball	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
chiari's malformation	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
impervious; bile duct	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
craniostosis	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
congenital ovalocytosis	An intrinsic defect of erythrocytes inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. The erythrocytes assume an oval or elliptical shape.
endocardial cushion defects nos	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
cushion defect; endocardium	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
imperforate esophagus	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
semilunar tooth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
phocomelia nos	Missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts (such as hands and/or feet) connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
stenosis pulm infundibular	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
sirenomelus	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
abnorm tooth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
microtias	Underdevelopment of the external ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421, PMID:3270622]
cervical ribs	A supernumerary rib developing from an abnormal enlargement of the costal element of the C7 vertebra. This anomaly is found in 1-2% of the population and can put pressure on adjacent structures causing CERVICAL RIB SYNDROME; THORACIC OUTLET SYNDROME; or other conditions.
hypogenesis of corpus callosum	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
ectopic kidneys	A developmental defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal anatomic position. [HPO:probinson]
atresias pulm	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
clavicle; pseudarthrosis	The two portions of the clavicle (corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle) are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum, and a synovial membrane develops, resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically. Congenital pseudarthrosis of the clavicle generally presents as a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22295044]
agenesis; foot	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
congenital pseudoarthrosis tibia	A condition characterized by non-union of the tibia, which is present at birth. It is usually associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.
congenital humpback	An abnormally increased curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine that is present at the time of birth.
congenital absence of the nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
uhl's disease	Uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium, normal tricuspid valve, and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium. [PMID:10859296, PMID:16322929]
alopecia congenita	A congenital condition characterized by the absence of hair on the scalp or entire body. The lack of hair is rarely absolute and is usually accompanied by incompletely grown, lanugo-like hair. It affects males twice as much as females and a familial tendency is common.
mammary gland hypoplasia	A disorder characterized by underdevelopment of the breast.
shark tooth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
bifurcated tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
hypoplasia; pancreas	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
adrenal gland agenesis	Absent development of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
unilateral renal agenesis	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of only one kidney.
kidney; hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
lobulated kidneys	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
ectopic ureter	A congenital anomaly in which the ureteral orifice drains into an abnormal location.
uterus; aplasia	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
uterus didelphus	A malformation of the uterus in which the uterus is present as a paired organ as a result of the failure of fusion of the mullerian ducts during embryogenesis. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of eyelid	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
malformation of ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of neck nos	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
acardiac malformation	A condition which occurs in monozygotic twins in which one of the fetuses supplies the majority of the cardiac output to its co-twin through its umbilical artery. The recipient twin has only rudimentary organs and structure and is not viable.
syndromes usher	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
gingival cysts	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
congenital spinal anomaly sacral agenesis	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
nasolacrimal duct atresia	A developmental disorder of the lacrimal drainage system that most often affects the lacrimal ostium and resulting in non-opening of the nasolacrimal duct. It usually results from a non-canalization of the nasolacrimal duct. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic gallbladder	The presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
extra rib	The presence of more than 12 rib pairs. [HPO:probinson]
lymphatic abnormalities	Medfödda eller förvärvade strukturella avvikelser i lymfsystemet, inklusive lymfkärlen.
dysplasias skeletal	A general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues. [HPO:probinson]
congenital small clavicle	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
septum pellucidum agenesis	Absence of the septum pellucidum. [HPO:probinson]
fused carpal bones	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
cleft eyelid	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
parachute mitral valve	Abnormality of the mitral valve apparatus, whereby chordae attach to a single papillary muscle or hypoplastic papillary muscles. [DDD:dbrown]
fistula; branchial cleft	A congenital fistula in the neck resulting from incomplete closure of a branchial cleft. [HPO:sdoelken]
hypoplasia; radius	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
thymus hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the thymus. [HPO:curators]
aplasia of thymus	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
corectopia	A malposition of the pupil owing to a developmental defect of the iris. [DDD:gblack, HPO:probinson]
hamartomatous disease	A benign tumor-like nodule composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues which is present at birth.
congenital malformation syndromes	A syndrome characterized by the presence of congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or system.
sternal cleft	The sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum. [HPO:probinson]
dysplasia kidney	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
pilonidal abscess	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypotrichia	A congenital condition, usually due to genetic aberrations, that is characterized by a lack of hair growth on the head and/or body.
developmental disability	Disorders in which there is a delay in development based on that expected for a given age level or stage of development. These impairments or disabilities originate before age 18, may be expected to continue indefinitely, and constitute a substantial impairment. Biological and nonbiological factors are involved in these disorders. (From American Psychiatric Glossary, 6th ed)
disorder birth	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
at birth	Denoting something that is present at birth.
agenesis	A congenital abnormality resulting in the absence of an anatomical structure.
laryngeal atresia	Laryngeal atresia is a congenital failure of the laryngeal opening to develop, resulting in partial or total obstruction at or just above or below the glottis.
facial cleft	A congenital malformation with a cleft (gap or opening) in the face. [HPO:probinson]
thyroid malformation	An anatomic abnormality of the thyroid gland.
atretic	Absence or closure of a normal body orifice or tubular organ. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
neonatal deformities	A congenital anatomic abnormality manifested during the neonatal period.
neonatal hearing impairment	An abnormality that affects hearing within the first month after birth. It may or may not result in hearing loss.
large skull present since birth	The presence of an abnormally large skull with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
fetus-to-fetus placental transfusion syndrome	Passage of blood from one fetus to another via an arteriovenous communication or other shunt, in a monozygotic twin pregnancy. It results in anemia in one twin and polycythemia in the other. (Lee et al., Wintrobe's Clinical Hematology, 9th ed, p737-8)
lithium induced birth defect	Congenital abnormalities, mainly cardiovascular malformations, which develop in a fetus when the mother uses lithium medication during pregnancy.
congenital hand and foot deformity	A malformation in the hand or foot that is present at birth. Representative examples include syndactyly, polydactyly, brachydactyly, and thumb hypoplasia.
congenital disruption	A morphologic defect of an organ, part of an organ, or a larger region of the body that results from the extrinsic breakdown of, or an interference with, an originally normal developmental process.
prosoposchisis	A congenital anatomic defect characterised by a facial cleft that extends from the mouth to the orbit of the eye.
caudal dysplasia	Severe reduction of caudal structures, including reduction of or absence of hindlimbs, tail, and/or sacral area. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
celosomy	A developmental abnormality characterized by the complex protrusion of viscera outside the abdominal wall.
cleft maxilla	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the upper jawbone.
major congenital anomaly	A major congenital anomaly is a structural or functional defect with the following three characteristics: 1) Of prenatal origin; 2) Present at the time of live birth or fetal demise, or in utero; 3) Affecting (or has the propensity to affect) the health, survival, or physical or cognitive functioning of the individual.
vulvar acquired melanocytic nevus	A benign nevus that arises from the vulva during childhood and grows with increasing age.
vulvar congenital melanocytic nevus	A benign nevus that arises from the vulva and is present at birth.
cdisc observation class terminology	The terminology subset that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) observation classes.
newborn screening terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support neonatal and infant examination.
perinatal terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events in the perinatal population.
cptac terminology	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC).
cptac medical conditions codelist	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on medical conditions.
cptac codelists terminology	Terminology used to support the various lists of data useful for tracking trends by CPTAC.
teratologic	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
branchial cleft malformation nos	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
anomalies	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
sprengel deformity	A congenital skeletal deformity characterized by the elevation of one scapula (thus, one scapula is located superior to the other). [HPO:probinson]
arteriovenous fistula of pulmonary vessels	A congenital or acquired malformation characterized by abnormal communication between the pulmonary arteries and pulmonary veins in the lungs.
pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas	A congenital or acquired malformation characterized by abnormal communication between the pulmonary arteries and pulmonary veins in the lungs.
congenital absence of salivary gland	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
synostosis; radioulnar	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the ulna. [HPO:probinson]
fused forearm bones	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the ulna. [HPO:probinson]
abnorm	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
lip-pit-cleft lip syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
aarskog syndrome	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
postaxial polydactyly	A form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the fifth finger or fifth toe. [HPO:probinson]
bixler christian gorlin syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of the combination of hypertelorism, cleft lip and palate and microtia. Nine cases have been reported in the literature in seven families. Some patients have associated cardiac or renal congenital malformations. Short stature and intellectual deficiency are common. The reported cases support autosomal recessive inheritance.
cartilage-hair hypoplasia	A rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutation in the gene for RNAase RMRP. It is characterized by short-limb dwarfism, presence of fine sparse hair, and T-and B-cell immunodeficiency.
bifid nose	Visually assessable vertical indentation, cleft, or depression of the nasal bridge, ridge and tip. [PMID:19152422]
syndrome; popliteal web	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
swiss cheese cartilage dysplasia	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited bone growth disorder caused by mutations in the COL2A1gene. It is characterized by short stature (dwarfism) and other skeletal abnormalities, round, flat face with bulging and wide-set eyes, myopia and retinal detachment that can lead to blindness.
warfarin; dysmorphism	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
lung; agenesis	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
colonic atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the colon.
allanson pantzar mcleod syndrome	A developmental defect characterized by absence or poor development of proximal renal tubules. [HPO:probinson]
congenital ut. abnorm.	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of cerebellum	Hypoplasia of the cerebellum that is associated with inherited metabolic disorders and neurodegenerative disorders. Signs and symptoms include mental and developmental delays, walking and balance difficulties, floppy muscle tone, and seizures.
familial visceral myopathy	A rare hereditary myopathic degeneration of both gastrointestinal and urinary tracts that causes chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. It usually presents after the first decade of life with megaduodenum, megacystis and symptoms such as abdominal distension and/or pain, vomiting, constipation, diarrhoea, dysphagia, and/or urinary tract infections.
fleck retina of kandori	A rare genetic retinal dystrophy with characteristics of irregular, sharply defined, yellowish-white lesions of variable size that are distributed mainly in the nasal equatorial region of the retina, with a tendency to confluence, that are not associated with any vascular or optic nerve abnormalities. They frequently manifest as mild and stationary night blindness.
hypoparathyroidism - x-linked	Hypoparathyroidism in which the inheritance is recessive and linked to the q26-q27 region of the X chromosome. The parathyroid glands are usually incompletely developed (parathyroid dysgenesis) or absent (parathyroid agenesis).
peter's anomaly	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of vas deferens	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
congenital absence of cervical vertebra	Agenesis of one or more vertebrae of the cervical vertebral column. [HPO:probinson]
trichorhinophalangeal dysplasia type i	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
thymic aplasia	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
niikawa-kuroki syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene (also known as MLL2) or the KDM6A gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial features including arched eyebrows, long eyelashes, long palpebral fissures with the lower lids turned out at the outside edges, a flat nose, and large protruding earlobes, developmental delay and intellectual disability.
macdermot-winter syndrome	A very rare syndrome described in two siblings with manifestation of prenatal onset of growth deficiency, microcephaly, hypoplastic genitalia, and birth onset of convulsions.
cardiogenital syndrome	Syndrome that associates dilated cardiomyopathy with hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. Prevalence is unknown but less than 20 affected families have been described in the literature so far. Occasional findings include a broad nasal base, blepharoptosis, mild intellectual deficit, mild skeletal anomalies and metabolic abnormalities. Mutations in the LMNA gene were recently detected in two sisters with an overlapping clinical phenotype but with additional findings that included a narrow chest, sloping shoulders, aged appearance of the hands and feet and facial dysmorphism (beaked nose and severe retrognathia). Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
pseudoprogeria syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia, microcephaly, and glaucoma, absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes, and a malformation of the nose. It has been described in two brothers.
congenital absence of trachea	Congenital absence of the trachea.
congenital absence of parathyroid gland	Aplasia of the parathyroid gland. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of kidneys syndrome	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of both kidneys.
vater association	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
shawaf-traboulsi syndrome	A syndromic developmental defect of the eye with characteristics of dislocated or subluxated crystalline lenses, anterior segment abnormalities, and distinctive facial features such as flat cheeks and a prominent, beaked nose. Affected individuals may develop nontraumatic conjunctival cysts, also referred to as filtering blebs. There is evidence the syndrome is caused by homozygous mutation in the ASPH gene on chromosome 8q12.
familial rectal pain	An autosomal dominant disorder due to a sodium channelopathy and characterized by skin flushing and severe pain. Attacks can start in infancy where the pain is typically concentrated in the lower part of the body, with progression of age the location of pain may change to affect the head and face.
kantaputra mesomelic dysplasia	A rare skeletal disease with characteristics of symmetric shortening of the middle segments of limbs and short stature. It has been described in five families. In the upper limbs, the ulnae are very short, and the radii are bowed. The distal humerus has a dumbbell shape. The hands show progressive flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints. In the lower limbs, feet are fixed in plantar flexion so that the patients walk on their toe tips. All affected patients have normal craniofacial features and intelligence. Two micro duplications have been identified on chromosome 2 (2q31.1-q31.2), separated by a segment of normal copy number. In all families, the condition is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
megarbane loiselet syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome, described in one family to date, with characteristics of branchial cysts or fistula, ear malformations, congenital hearing loss (conductive, sensorineural, and mixed), internal auditory canal hypoplasia, strabismus, trismus, abnormal fifth fingers, vitiliginous lesions, short stature and mild learning disability. Renal and urethral abnormalities are absent.
hairy throat syndrome	Anterior cervical hypertrichosis (ACH) or 'hairy throat' refers to the presence of a tuft of terminal hair on the anterior neck, just above the laryngeal prominence. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20400390]
small patella syndrome	A very rare benign bone dysplasia affecting skeletal structures of the lower limb and the pelvis. Less than 50 patients have been reported worldwide. The main clinical features include patellar aplasia or hypoplasia, associated with absent, delayed or irregular ossification of the ischiopubic junctions and/or the infra-acetabular axe-cut notches. Additional features found in the majority of reported patients include femur and foot anomalies. Craniofacial anomalies have been reported occasionally. Inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and is caused by mutations in the human TBX4 gene (chromosome 17q22). TBX4 mutations account for familial cases with a distinctive facial appearance and those without facial features.
hartsfield syndrome	A rare disease with characteristics of holoprosencephaly and ectrodactyly. Holoprosencephaly occurs during early fetal development with failure of the brain to divide into the left and right hemisphere. In the most severe forms of holoprosencephaly, the brain does not divide at all. These affected individuals have cyclopia and proboscis located above the eye. Most babies with severe holoprosencephaly die before birth or soon after. Other manifestations include malfunctioning pituitary, seizures, feeding difficulties, developmental delay and problems regulating body temperature and sleep pattern. Some affected individuals have distinctive facial features, including hypertelorism, hypotelorism, cleft lip, cleft palate. Can be caused by mutations in the FGFR1 gene.
thoracomelic dysplasia	An extremely rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterised by a bell-shaped thorax, disproportionate short stature, pelvic hypoplasia, dislocatable radial heads and elongated distal fibulae. Acetabular spurs and phalangeal cone-shaped epiphyses are not present and osseous manifestations tend to normalise with age. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
teebi shaltout syndrome	A rare genetic development defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome with the association of characteristic facial features (including abnormal head shape with narrow forehead, hypertelorism, telecanthus, small earlobes, broad nasal bridge and tip, underdeveloped ala nasi, small/wide mouth and high/cleft palate), ectodermal dysplasia (including oligodontia with delayed dentition, slow growing hair and reduced sweating) and skeletal abnormalities including camptodactyly and caudal appendage. Short stature and abnormal palmar creases are additional clinical features.
casamassima morton nance syndrome	Syndrome with the association of spondylocostal dysostosis with anal and genitourinary malformations (anal atresia and agenesis of external and internal genitalia). To date, only four cases have been described in the literature.
renal dysplasia-limb defects syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of renal dysplasia, growth retardation, phocomelia or mesomelia, radiohumeral fusion, rib abnormalities, anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter-like facies. The syndrome has been described in three infants, all of whom died shortly after birth from respiratory distress resulting from pulmonary hypoplasia and oligohydramnios caused by renal dysplasia. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
autosomal recessive popliteal pterygium syndrome	A rare inherited popliteal pterygium syndrome with characteristics of severe popliteal webbing, microcephaly, a typical face with short palpebral fissures, ankyloblepharon, hypoplastic nose, filiform bands between the jaws and facial clefts, genital abnormalities and additional ectodermal anomalies (absent hair, eyebrows, lashes, nails). It is often fatal in the neonatal period but survival into childhood has been reported.
polysyndactyly with cardiac malformation	Syndrome with characteristics of polysyndactyly, hexadactyly (duplication of the first toe) and complex cardiac malformation (including atrial and ventricular septal defect, single ventricle, aortic dextroposition, or dilation of the right heart). It has been described in six patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations were present in some patients (i.e. facial dysmorphism, hepatic cysts).
phaver syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the association of limb pterygia, heart anomalies, autosomal recessive inheritance, vertebral defects, ear anomalies and radial defects. It has been described in two siblings. One of the siblings also had a myelomeningocele. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary with probable autosomal recessive inheritance.
bstvs	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by the premature fusion of the bones of the skull (craniosynostosis) and a skin abnormality called cutis gyrata. The craniosynostosis results in a cloverleaf-shaped skull, wide-set eyes, ear abnormalities, underdeveloped upper jaw, and developmental delays. Cutis gyrata is characterized by a wrinkled skin appearance, especially on the face, near the ears, and on the palms and soles.
coxoauricular syndrome	An extremely rare primary bone defect described only in a mother and her three daughters to date. The disease has characteristics of short stature, hip dislocation, minor vertebral and pelvic changes and microtia with hearing loss. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
congenitally short costocoracoid ligament	A rare anomaly with characteristics of fixation of the scapula to the first rib, resulting in a cosmetic deformity with rounding of the shoulders and loss of the anterior clavicular contour. It has been described only once in several members of a single family from Canada. The abnormality resulted in a strong pectoral girdle with lack of mobility. Movements requiring rotation or retraction of the scapula were limited, but this does not normally interfere with daily activities.
coloboma of the macula	A congenital defect of the macula distinct from coloboma associated with optic fissure closure defects. Macular coloboma is characterized by a sharply defined, rather large defect in the central area of the fundus that is oval or round, and coarsely pigmented. [DDD:gblack, PMID:15069441]
deafness with lamm	A genetic transmission deafness syndrome. The profound congenital deafness is associated with a complete absence of inner ear structures (Michel aplasia) microtia type I with small auricle and narrow external auditory canal and microdontia with widely spaced teeth. Linkage analysis followed by sequencing of candidate genes led to identification of three different homozygous mutations in the FGF3 gene (11q13). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
mesomelic dysplasia savarirayan type	Severely hypoplastic and triangular-shaped tibiae and absence of the fibulae.Two sporadic cases have been described. Moderate mesomelia of the upper limbs, proximal widening of the ulnas, pelvic anomalies and marked bilateral glenoid hypoplasia also reported.
game friedman paradice syndrome	A rare developmental disorder described in 4 siblings so far. Main characteristics include delayed fetal growth, hydrocephaly with patent aqueduct of Sylvius, underdeveloped lungs and various other anomalies such as small jaw, intestinal malrotation, shortness of lower limbs, bowed tibias and foot deformities.
holzgreve wagner rehder syndrome	An extremely rare lethal multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of renal agenesis with Potter sequence, cleft lip/palate, oral synechiae, cardiac defects, and skeletal abnormalities including postaxial polydactyly. Intestinal nonfixation and intrauterine growth restriction are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
saito kuba tsuruta syndrome	This syndrome has features of fibuloulnar dysostosis with renal anomalies. It has been described in two siblings born to nonconsanguinous parents. The syndrome is lethal at birth (respiratory failure). Clinical manifestations include ear and facial anomalies (including micrognathia), symmetrical shortness of long bones, fibular agenesis and hypoplastic ulna, oligosyndactyly, congenital heart defects, and cystic or hypoplastic kidney. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
du pan syndrome	Severe reduction or absence of the fibula and complex brachydactyly. The syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the cartilage-derived morphogenetic protein-1 gene.
gollop-wolfgang complex	A very rare malformation with main features of ectrodactyly of the hand and ipsilateral bifurcation of the femur. Approximately 200 cases have been reported worldwide. Congenital aplasia/hypoplasia of the tibia, accompanied by pre-axial oligodactyly or monodactyly of the feet, may also be present. In most cases, the bifurcation of the distal femur is unilateral. Patients are often small. Autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive modes of transmission have been suggested.
beemer lethal malformation syndrome	A lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first-cousin parents with characteristics of hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bones and unusual facies with down-slanting palpebral fissures, bulbous nose, broad nasal bridge, micrognathia and a long upper lip. Transmission is likely autosomal recessive. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1984.
atrichia with papular lesions	The patients are born with hair that falls out and is not replaced. Histologic studies show malformation of the hair follicles. Papillary lesions over most of the body and almost complete absence of hair are features.
aphalangy with hemivertebrae	An extremely rare congenital limb malformation syndrome, described in only 3 patients to date with the association of hypoplasia or aplasia of the hand and foot phalanges, hemivertebrae and various urogenital and/or intestinal abnormalities (i.e. dysgenesis of the urogenital tract and rectum). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1991.
humerus trochlea aplasia	An extremely rare familial bone deformity described only in Japanese patients to date. The deformity is bilateral in nearly half of patients (with bilateral involvement, the condition is symmetrical) and sometimes causes ulnar nerve palsy or cubitus varus.
carnevale hernandez del castillo syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of triphalangeal thumbs and brachydactyly of the hands. Ectrodactyly of the feet and, more rarely, ectrodactyly of the hands were also reported in some family members. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
say field coldwell syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of triphalangeal thumbs, brachydactyly, camptodactyly, recurrent dislocation of the patellas and relatively short stature. It has been described in a mother and her three daughters.
tetramelic monodactyly	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of the presence of a single digit on all four extremities. The malformation is typically isolated however, aplastic and hypoplastic defects in the remaining skeletal parts of hands and feet have been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
brachydactyly elbow wrist dysplasia	Syndrome with abnormal development of the arms resulting in characteristic arm malformations that can vary in severity. Bones in the elbows are abnormally shaped which affects mobility of the joints. Wrist bones are fused forming structures that resemble those in the ankles and heels and causing permanent radial deviation. The metacarpals are longer than normal along with brachydactyly. Life expectancy is normal. The syndrome is caused by genetic changes near the PITX1 gene. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
liebenberg syndrome	Syndrome with abnormal development of the arms resulting in characteristic arm malformations that can vary in severity. Bones in the elbows are abnormally shaped which affects mobility of the joints. Wrist bones are fused forming structures that resemble those in the ankles and heels and causing permanent radial deviation. The metacarpals are longer than normal along with brachydactyly. Life expectancy is normal. The syndrome is caused by genetic changes near the PITX1 gene. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
haas type syndactyly	A very rare congenital distal limb malformation with characteristics of complete bilateral syndactyly involving all digits 1 to 5. So far, only four reports have been described in the literature. A frequent association with polydactyly (with six metacarpals and six digits) has been reported. Feet are affected occasionally. The SD4 locus maps to 7q36. The condition is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
wallis zieff goldblatt syndrome	A rhizo-mesomelic dysplasia with characteristics of rhizomelic short stature in combination with lateral clavicular defects. Additional manifestations include brachydactyly with bilateral clinodactyly and hypoplastic middle phalanx of the fifth digit. The syndrome has been reported in one family (mother and son) and is suspected to be transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
cleidorhizomelic syndrome	A rhizo-mesomelic dysplasia with characteristics of rhizomelic short stature in combination with lateral clavicular defects. Additional manifestations include brachydactyly with bilateral clinodactyly and hypoplastic middle phalanx of the fifth digit. The syndrome has been reported in one family (mother and son) and is suspected to be transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
cervical vertebral dysplasia	Dysplasia of the cervical vertebral column. [HPO:probinson]
banki syndrome	A synostosis syndrome reported in a single Hungarian family in which members of 3 generations showed lunotriquetral synostosis, clinodactyly, clinometacarpy, brachymetacarpy and leptometacarpy (thin diaphysis). It appeared to be a unique dominant mutation. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1965.
aniridia and absent patella syndrome	A syndrome described in three members of a family (a boy, his father and his paternal grandmother) with the association of aniridia and patella aplasia or hypoplasia. The grandmother also had bilateral cataracts and glaucoma. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1975.
scholte syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, patella luxations, acromicria, hypogonadism, facial dysmorphism (including midface hypoplasia and premature frontotemporal balding). It has been described in three unrelated males.
schinzel syndrome	An extremely rare inherited disorder characterized by malformations of the ulnar ray, hypoplasia and dysfunction of the axillary apocrine and mammary glands, endocrine dysfunction, dental anomalies, and occasional visceral malformations.
finlay-marks syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp (present at birth and healing during childhood), prominent hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinna and bilateral amastia. Renal and urinary tract abnormalities, as well as cataract, have also been observed. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
scalp-ear-nipple syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp (present at birth and healing during childhood), prominent hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinna and bilateral amastia. Renal and urinary tract abnormalities, as well as cataract, have also been observed. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
say syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome with characteristics of cleft palate, large protruding ears, microcephaly and short stature (prenatal onset). Other skeletal abnormalities (delayed bone age, distally tapering fingers, hypoplastic distal phalanges, proximally placed thumbs, fifth finger clinodactyly), Pierre Robin sequence, cystic renal dysplasia, proximal renal tubular acidosis, hypospadia, cerebral anomalies on imaging (enlargement of lateral ventricles, mild cortical atrophy), seizures, hypotonia and developmental delay are also observed.
aplasia of lacrimal puncta	No identifiable superior and/or inferior lacrimal punctum. [PMID:19125427]
schmitt gillenwater kelly syndrome	This syndrome has manifestation of symmetric, nonopposable triphalangeal thumbs and radial hypoplasia. It has been described in eight patients (five females and three males) spanning generations of a family. The affected males also presented with hypospadias. The syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
antecubital pterygium	Pterygium affecting the elbow. This is a cutaneous web that can lead to severe flexion contracture of the elbow joint. Antecubital pterygium can be unilateral, bilateral, symmetric, or asysmmetric. [HPO:probinson]
pterygium of conjunctiva and cornea	A wedge-shaped fibrovascular lesion arising from the bulbar conjunctiva and extending to the cornea. It is caused by chronic exposure to solar ultraviolet radiation, heat, and dust. It may cause severe vision loss. Studies have linked pterygium to neoplastic proliferation and suggest that it may be a stem cell disorder.
stoll levy francfort syndrome	Rare syndrome with features of phocomelia (involving arms more severely), ectrodactyly, ear anomalies (bilateral anomalies of the pinnae), conductive deafness, dysmorphism (long and prominent philtrum, mild maxillary hypoplasia) and sinus arrhythmia. It has been described in four patients from two unrelated families.
ivemark ii syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with the triad of pancreatic fibrosis (and cysts, with a reduction of parenchymal tissue), renal dysplasia (with peripheral cortical cysts, primitive collecting ducts, glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage) and hepatic dysgenesis (enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendency to perilobular fibrosis). Situs abnormalities, skeletal anomalies and anencephaly have also been associated. Patients that survive the neonatal period present renal insufficiency, chronic jaundice and insulin-dependant diabetes.
autosomal dominant omodysplasia	An autosomal dominant form of omodysplasia a rare skeletal dysplasia, in which stature is normal and shortening is limited to the upper limbs.
humeral radial synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
regional choroidal atrophy and alopecia	A very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with the association of choroidal atrophy (sometimes regional), together with other ectodermal dysplasia features including fine and sparse hair, absent or decreased lashes and eyebrows, and possibly mild visual loss and dysplastic/thick/grooved nails.
familial caudal dysgenesis	A clinical entity that can present as variable anomalies of the caudal pole. It has been described in four siblings and their father's half-sister. The first sibling had aberrant umbilical cord vasculature with a single umbilical artery near the placental insertion. Two of the siblings showed full sirenomelia, one with a complex congenital heart defect. The fourth case had an imperforate anus and an excessively long umbilical cord. The half-sister had an imperforate anus, rectovaginal fistula and genitourinary anomalies. The syndrome appears to be expressed as a dominant trait with reduced penetrance and variable expressivity.
mehes syndrome	This syndrome is extremely rare and has characteristics of delayed speech development, mild facial asymmetry, strabismus and transverse ear lobe creases. To date, six cases have been reported in five families. Dysmorphic features include asymmetrical face, unilateral narrow palpebral fissure, divergent strabismus, long philtrum, high-arched palate, apparently low-set ears and transverse ear lobe creases on both sides. Delayed language development is constant but intellectual development can be normal. In one family, the transmission was compatible with either autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inheritance.
waaler aarskog syndrome	This syndrome has principal characteristics of by Sprengel anomaly (upward displacement of the scapula) and hydrocephaly. Other anomalies such as psychomotor retardation, psychosis, brachydactyly and costovertebral dysplasia may also be present. The syndrome has been described in eight female patients. The mode of transmission has not been firmly established but appears to be either autosomal or X-linked dominant.
thomas syndrome	Thomas syndrome has characteristics of renal anomalies, cardiac malformations and cleft lip or palate. It has been described in six patients. Transmission was suggested to be autosomal recessive.
triphalangeal thumb non opposable	A form of triphalangeal thumb that cannot be placed opposite the fingers of the same hand. [HPO:probinson]
melhem fahl syndrome	Syndrome that was described in two siblings born to consanguineous parents in 1985 with the presence of 15 dorsal vertebrae and rib pairs. No other cases have been documented since the initial report.
piussan lenaerts mathieu syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, mild dysmorphism, type A brachydactyly, signs of obesity and ankylosis of both thumbs. It has been reported in several females from one family (a girl and her mother, her grandmother and probably also her sister and her great-aunt), as well as in an isolated case.
sharma kapoor ramji syndrome	An extremely rare lethal primary bone dysplasia with characteristics of thin ribs, thin long bones, high-arched palate and facial features of frontal bossing and low-set posteriorly rotated ears. Bilateral cryptorchidism may be also observed. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1990.
volcke soekarman syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of macrocephaly and midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit, short stature, spastic paraplegia and severe central nervous system anomalies (hydrocephalus and Dandy-Walker malformation). It has been described in two unrelated adults.
blastogenesis defect	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of congenital manifestations of both oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum and caudal regression sequence. Phenotype is highly variable but patients typically present facial dysmorphism (including asymmetry, hypertelorism), auricular abnormalities (for example preauricular tags, microtia, absence of middle ear ossicles), skeletal malformations (hemivertebrae, hip dislocation, sacral agenesis/dysplasia, talipes equinovarus, flexion deformity of lower limbs), cardiac defects (dextrocardia, septal defects), renal and genitourinary anomalies (such as renal agenesis/dysplasia, abnormal external genitalia) along with anal anomalies such as anal atresia and rectovesical fistula.
tsukahara syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of the association of radioulnar synostosis with microcephaly, scoliosis, short stature and intellectual deficit.
bresheck syndrome	X-linked mental retardation with characteristics of Brain anomalies, severe mental Retardation, Ectodermal dysplasia, Skeletal deformities (vertebral anomalies, scoliosis, polydactyly), Ear/eye anomalies (maldevelopment, small optic nerves, low set and large ears with hearing loss) and Kidney dysplasia/hypoplasia (giving the acronym BRESEK syndrome). It has been described in two brothers, one of whom died shortly after birth. One of the brothers also had Hirschsprung disease and Cleft palate/cryptorchidism (giving the acronym: BRESHECK syndrome). Transmission is X-linked dominant.
bresek syndrome	X-linked mental retardation with characteristics of Brain anomalies, severe mental Retardation, Ectodermal dysplasia, Skeletal deformities (vertebral anomalies, scoliosis, polydactyly), Ear/eye anomalies (maldevelopment, small optic nerves, low set and large ears with hearing loss) and Kidney dysplasia/hypoplasia (giving the acronym BRESEK syndrome). It has been described in two brothers, one of whom died shortly after birth. One of the brothers also had Hirschsprung disease and Cleft palate/cryptorchidism (giving the acronym: BRESHECK syndrome). Transmission is X-linked dominant.
drug induced abnormalities	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
hyoscyamine sulfate	The sulfate salt of a belladonna alkaloid derivative and the levorotatory form of racemic atropine isolated from the plants Hyoscyamus niger or Atropa belladonna, which exhibits anticholinergic activity. Hyoscyamine functions as a non-selective, competitive antagonist of muscarinic receptors, thereby inhibiting the parasympathetic activities of acetylcholine on the salivary, bronchial, and sweat glands, as well as the eye, heart, bladder, and gastrointestinal tract. These inhibitory effects cause a decrease in saliva, bronchial mucus, gastric juices, and sweat. Furthermore, its inhibitory action on smooth muscle prevents bladder contraction and decreases gastrointestinal motility.
abnorm drug ind	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
product containing phytomenadione	A family of phylloquinones that contains a ring of 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone and an isoprenoid side chain. Members of this group of vitamin K 1 have only one double bond on the proximal isoprene unit. Rich sources of vitamin K 1 include green plants, algae, and photosynthetic bacteria. Vitamin K1 has antihemorrhagic and prothrombogenic activity.
benzhexol	One of the centrally acting MUSCARINIC ANTAGONISTS used for treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and drug-induced extrapyramidal movement disorders and as an antispasmodic.
drug-induced abnormality	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
benztropine mesylate	A synthetic antiparkinson tertiary amine structurally related to atropine, Benztropine Mesylate acts as a central muscarinic antagonist and inhibits dopamine uptake. With antihistaminic and local anesthetic properties as well, it is indicated for symptomatic relief of parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. (NCI04)
lactobacterium helveticum	En art grampositiva bakterier som isolerats från mjölk och startkulturer för ost.
lactobacillus salivarius	A species of facultatively anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria in the phylum Firmicutes. This species is nonmotile, non spore forming, nitrate negative and does not hydrolyze esculin or hippurate. L. salivarius is a commensal organism of the oral cavity.
lactobacillus rhamnosus	Druh grampozitivní, tyčinkovité bakterie, která se používá jako probiotikum.
lactobacillus crispatus	A species of Lactobacillus that occurs in the human GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the VAGINA of healthy women. It produces LACTIC ACID and HYDROGEN PEROXIDE, and is used as a PROBIOTIC. It is also used for the treatment and prevention of BACTERIAL VAGINOSIS.
teratogenicity	The result of processes that negatively affect a developing fetus.
medicines and pregnancy	<p>Not all medicines are safe to take when you are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancy.html">pregnant</a>. Some medicines can harm your baby. That includes over-the-counter or prescription drugs, herbs, and supplements.</p> <p>Always speak with your health care provider before you start or stop any medicine. Not using medicine that you need may be more harmful to you and your baby than using the medicine. For example, many pregnant women take prescription medicines for health problems like diabetes, asthma, seizures, and heartburn. The decision about whether or not to take a medicine depends on the risks and benefits. You and your health care provider should make this choice together.</p> <p>Pregnant women should not take regular vitamins. They may have too much or too little of the vitamins that you need. There are special vitamins for pregnant women. It is important to take 0.4 mg of folic acid every day before you become pregnant through the first part of your pregnancy. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/folicacid.html">Folic acid</a> helps to prevent birth defects of the baby's brain or spine.</p> <p class="">Food and Drug Administration</p>
lip-pit syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
neu laxova syndrome	A rare multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of severe intrauterine growth retardation, severe microcephaly with a sloping forehead, severe ichthyosis (collodion baby type), and facial dysmorphism. Severe central nervous system defects are present. The syndrome is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
schinzel-giedion syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutation(s) in the SETBP1 gene, encoding SET-binding protein. It is characterized by unique facial features, including midface hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
multiple congenital deformities nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
anomalies multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
cardiac-limb syndrome	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
jarcho-levin syndrome	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
pulmonary aplasia	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
congenital anomaly nos/multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
winchester syndrome	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder, caused by mutation(s) in the MMP14 gene, encoding matrix metalloproteinase-14. It is characterized by short stature, coarse facial features, flat nose, joint contractures, severe osteolysis in the hands and feet, and generalized osteoporosis.
floating-harbour syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the SRCAP gene, encoding helicase SRCAP. It is characterized by proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, delayed speech development, and typical facial features.
mutchinick syndrome	A rare intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of growth retardation, microcephaly, characteristic facial features (including narrow forehead, bushy eyebrows, hypertelorism, small, downward-slanting palpebral fissures with blepharoptosis, malformed and low-set ears, broad straight nose, thin upper lip and a wide, tented mouth), developmental delay, intellectual disability, speech disorder, and multiple organ malformations (e.g. ventricular septal defect, megaloureter, dilated renal pelvis). Additional manifestations reported include neurocutaneous lesions (including palmoplantar hyperkeratosis), internal hydrocephalus, and bilateral partial soft-tissue syndactyly of second and third toe.
pallister w syndrome	W syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, epileptic seizures and facial dysmorphism. Skeletal anomalies are also often present. To date, it has been described in six male patients. The mode of transmission appears to be X-linked dominant.
wt limb-blood syndrome	Syndrome is characterised by haematological anomalies (Fanconi anaemia, leukaemia and lymphoma) often appearing during childhood. Anomalies of the limbs and hands are also present: bifid or hypoplastic thumbs, cutaneous syndactyly and ulnar and radial defects. The syndrome has been described in several families. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
khalifa graham syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of pterygium colli, digital anomalies and craniofacial abnormalities. Digital anomalies include abnormal small thumbs, widened interphalangeal joints, and broad terminal phalanges. Craniofacial abnormalities include brachycephaly, epicanthic folds, angulated eyebrows, upward slanting of the palpebral fissures, ptosis, hypertelorism, prominent low-set and posteriorly rotated ears. It has been described in a woman and her son, but the manifestations were much less severe in the mother. The son also had intellectual deficit. The inheritance is either X-linked dominant or autosomal dominant.
multiple anomalies	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
multiple congenital anomaly	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
malformations multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
bedouin spastic ataxia syndrome	Extremely rare syndrome with features of spastic ataxia in association with bilateral congenital cataract, corneal dystrophy, and nonaxial myopia. It has been described in an inbred Bedouin family. Immunological abnormalities were frequent. Transmission is autosomal recessive and the disease is monogenic.
somatomedin c resistance	Tissue unresponsiveness to insulin-like growth factor-I.
multiple abnorm	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
deformity; multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
anisomastia	The presence of asymmetrical breasts. [HPO:probinson]
pelvis shoulder dysplasia	A rare focal skeletal dysostosis with characteristics of symmetrical hypoplasia of the scapulae and the iliac wings of the pelvis. Approximately 10 patients have been reported so far. Additional skeletal abnormalities may include hypoplasia of the clavicles, ribs, femora and fibula, together with spina bifida and prominent lumbar lordosis. Eye anomalies (coloboma of iris and retina) have occasionally been reported. Intelligence is described as normal. Pelvis-shoulder dysplasia seems to be a genetically heterogeneous disorder but no causative genes have been identified so far.
nplcs	Syndrome with characteristics of nasopalpebral lipomas, bilateral eyelid coloboma, and telecanthus. It has been described in less than 30 patients. Other manifestations may include maxillary hypoplasia, hypertelorism, and dysmorphic features. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with complete penetrance.
irons-bianchi syndrome	This syndrome is characterised by congenital lymphoedema of the lower limbs, atrial septal defect and a characteristic facies (a round face with a prominent forehead, a flat nasal bridge with a broad nasal tip, epicanthal folds, a thin upper lip and a cleft chin). It has been described in two brothers and a sister. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
microcephaly cleft palate syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by the combination of microcephaly, cleft palate, and variable anomalies such as unusual facial appearance, hypotelorism, abnormal retinal pigmentation, maxillary hypoplasia, goiter, camptodactyly, mild intellectual deficit, and abnormal dermatoglyphics. It has been described only once; in two sisters and their mother. Although microcephaly and intellectual deficit are frequently associated with cleft palate, the other features of these patients are in favour of this syndrome being an entity per se. The mode of inheritance is autosomal or X-linked dominant.
stoelinga de koomen davis syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of multiple unerupted permanent teeth, hypoplasia of the alveolar process and of the maxillo-zygomatic region, severe genu valgum and deformed ears. Consanguinity in the family suggested autosomal recessive inheritance.
gemss syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of progressive joint stiffness, glaucoma, short stature and lens dislocation. It has been described in three members of a family (the grandfather, his daughter and grandson). It is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. The acronym GEMSS (Glaucoma, Ectopia, Microspherophakia, Stiff joints, Short stature) was proposed as a name for the syndrome.
multiple congenital abnormalities	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
aicardi syndrome	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
paralysis; oculofacial	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
chromosome; abnormal	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal disorder	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
cat crying syndrome	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
multiple; anomaly	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
langdon down	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
foetal alcohol syndrome	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fetal alcohol spectrum disorders	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fetal alcohol syndrome	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fragile x mental retardation syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
kartagener syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
kartageners syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
klinefelter's syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
laurence-moon syndrome	En autosomalt recessiv sjukdom som kännetecknas av hypogonadism, nedbrytning av ryggmärg och lillhjärna, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, retinitis pigmentosa och fetma. Syndromet kallades Laurence-Moon-Biedls syndrom tills Bardet-Biedls syndrom erkändes som ett självständigt sjukdomstillstånd.
whole chromosome depletion	The condition in which one chromosome of a pair is missing. In a normally diploid cell it is represented symbolically as 2N-1.
nail patella syndrome	A syndrome of multiple abnormalities characterized by the absence or hypoplasia of the PATELLA and congenital nail dystrophy. It is a genetically determined autosomal dominant trait.
turner kieser syndrome	A syndrome of multiple abnormalities characterized by the absence or hypoplasia of the PATELLA and congenital nail dystrophy. It is a genetically determined autosomal dominant trait.
disease recklinghausens	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
noonan's syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
robin's syndrome	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
prader willis syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
sex chromosome aberration	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
abnorm sex chromosome	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sex chromosome aberrations	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
chromosomal translocation	rearrangement in which part of a chromosome is detached by breakage and becomes attached to another chromosome.
trisomy	The possession of a third chromosome of any one type in an otherwise diploid cell.
sclerosis tuberous	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
cerebral scleroses	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
cerebral sclerosis	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
turner-ullrich	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
turners syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
turner's syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
ullrich-turner syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
twins conjoined	MONOZYGOTIC TWINS who are joined in utero. They may be well developed and share only a superficial connection, often in the frontal, transverse or sagittal body plane, or they may share a partial duplication of a body structure. Alternatively, there may be a small and incompletely developed twin conjoined to a larger, more fully developed twin.
patau's syndrome nos	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
rsh syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder of CHOLESTEROL metabolism. It is caused by a deficiency of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase, the enzyme that converts 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol, leading to an abnormally low plasma cholesterol. This syndrome is characterized by multiple CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES, growth deficiency, and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
syndrome tars	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
triple-x female	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
whistling face	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
whistling-face syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
taybi	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
opd i syndrome	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
marchesani-weill syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
foetal hydantoin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
hydantoin syndrome; fetus	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
tetrasomy x	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
syndrome; xxxx	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
xxxx syndrome; female	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
xxxxx; syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
five x syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
pentasomy x syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
synophthalmia	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
epignathus	Epignathus is a teratoma originating from the upper jaw, usually connected with the sphenoid bone or hard palate. [PMID:19240824, UToronto:chum]
brachmann de lange syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
dicentric chromosome	An abnormal chromosome with two centromeres as opposed to the normal one centromere.
laurence moon bardet biedl syndrome	En autosomal, recessiv störning kännetecknad av retinitis pigmentosa, polydaktyli, övervikt, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, hypogenitalism, njurdysplasi och kortvuxenhet. Syndromet skiljer sig från Laurence-Moons syndrom.
papillon-léage and psaume syndrome	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
balanced translocation of chromosome	Interchanges of genetic material among different chromosomes following the breaking off of pieces of chromosomes such that the total chromosome composition may still contain all of the genetic material.Balanced Chromosomal Rearrangement.
alport syndrome	hereditary disorder characterized by progressive sensorineural hearing loss, progressive pyelonephritis or glomerulonephritis, and, occasionally, ocular defects; transmitted as an autosomal dominant or X-linked trait.
blood group abo	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood type ab	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of both the A and B forms of the H Antigen.
blood group o	A blood group indicating the absence on erythrocytes of both the A and B forms of the H Antigen.
abo blood groups	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood type a	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of only the A form of the H Antigen.
abo blood group system	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
ab blood type	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of both the A and B forms of the H Antigen.
blood groups--abo system	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
abo groups	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
abo typing	The determination of the blood type of an individual by testing for the presence or absence of A antigen and/or B antigen on the surface of red blood cells.
abomasum	The fourth stomach of ruminating animals. It is also called the "true" stomach. It is an elongated pear-shaped sac lying on the floor of the abdomen, on the right-hand side, and roughly between the seventh and twelfth ribs. It leads to the beginning of the small intestine. (From Black's Veterinary Dictionary, 17th ed)
experimental organism anatomical concept	A non-human biological structure, fluid or other substance; excludes single molecular entities.
cdisc send biospecimens terminology	A terminology set that includes concepts relevant to CDISC SEND biospecimens.
ruminant stomachs	A component of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM of RUMINANTS which consists of the ABOMASUM; OMASUM; RETICULUM; and RUMEN.
abomasum structure	The fourth stomach of ruminating animals. It is also called the "true" stomach. It is an elongated pear-shaped sac lying on the floor of the abdomen, on the right-hand side, and roughly between the seventh and twelfth ribs. It leads to the beginning of the small intestine. (From Black's Veterinary Dictionary, 17th ed)
ruminant stomach	A component of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM of RUMINANTS which consists of the ABOMASUM; OMASUM; RETICULUM; and RUMEN.
abortus	Foster av ett däggdjur utstött på grund av framkallad abort eller missfall.
fetal structure	The anatomical parts that make up a viviparous mammalian organism in the postembryonic period of development.
embryonic structure	The anatomical parts that make up an organism in the early stages of development.
abortifacients	Chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation.
mifepristone	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
abortient agent	Chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation.
prostaglandin f	(9 alpha,11 alpha,13E,15S)-9,11,15-Trihydroxyprost-13-en-1-oic acid (PGF(1 alpha)); (5Z,9 alpha,11,alpha,13E,15S)-9,11,15-trihydroxyprosta-5,13-dien-1-oic acid (PGF(2 alpha)); (5Z,9 alpha,11 alpha,13E,15S,17Z)-9,11,15-trihydroxyprosta-5,13,17-trien-1-oic acid (PGF(3 alpha)). A family of prostaglandins that includes three of the six naturally occurring prostaglandins. All naturally occurring PGF have an alpha configuration at the 9-carbon position. They stimulate uterine and bronchial smooth muscle and are often used as oxytocics.
abortifacient agent	Chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation.
mifepristone product	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
non-steroidal abortifacient agents	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
trichosanthin	Plant-derived ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) purified from the Chinese medicinal herb tian-hua-fen which is obtained from the root tubers of Trichosanthes kirilowii. It has been used as an abortifacient and in the treatment of trophoblastic tumors. GLQ223 (Compound Q), a highly purified form of trichosanthin, has been proposed as antiviral treatment for AIDS.
nonsteroidal abortifacient agents	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
compound q	Plant-derived ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) purified from the Chinese medicinal herb tian-hua-fen which is obtained from the root tubers of Trichosanthes kirilowii. It has been used as an abortifacient and in the treatment of trophoblastic tumors. GLQ223 (Compound Q), a highly purified form of trichosanthin, has been proposed as antiviral treatment for AIDS.
carboprost	A nonsteroidal abortifacient agent that is effective in both the first and second trimesters of PREGNANCY.
misoprostol	A synthetic analog of natural prostaglandin E1. It produces a dose-related inhibition of gastric acid and pepsin secretion, and enhances mucosal resistance to injury. It is an effective anti-ulcer agent and also has oxytocic properties.
steroid abortifacients	Steroidal compounds with abortifacient activity.
steroidal abortifacient agents	Steroidal compounds with abortifacient activity.
vaginal expulsion of foetus	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous abortion	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
dydrogesterone	A synthetic progestational hormone with no androgenic or estrogenic properties. Unlike many other progestational compounds, dydrogesterone produces no increase in temperature and does not inhibit OVULATION.
abortion spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
desogestrel	A synthetic progestational hormone used often as the progestogenic component of combined oral contraceptive agents (ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES, COMBINED).
miscarriage	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
spontaneous; abortion	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
vet abortion	Premature expulsion of the FETUS in animals.
incomplete spontaneous abortion	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
miscarriage or abortion	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
abortion; spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion spontaneous incomplete	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
missed abortions	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
complete abortion	Expulsion of all the products of conception following spontaneous, medical or operative pregnancy termination.
vanishing twin syndrome	A multiple pregnancy that over time is spontaneously reduced by one or more embryos which are then resorbed.
peri-implantational loss	Pregnancy loss before 5th week of gestation with no gestational sac visible on ultrasonogram.
gynecological disorder	Pathological processes involving the female reproductive tract (GENITALIA, FEMALE).
spontaneous abortion unspecified	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
urogenital disorder	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the genitourinary system.
pregnancy with abortive outcome	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
unspecified spontaneous abortion nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
miscarriage pregnancy	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
female genital organ structure	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
abortion - spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
pregnancy with abortive outcome nos	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
abortions	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
spontaneous abortion nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion nos	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
female genital organs	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
female genital system	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
pregnancy loss	expulsion of the products of conception before the completion of gestation.
abortion spontaneous nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
missed abortion	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
miscarriages pregnancy	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
missed miscarriage	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
molar pregnancy	Trophoblastic hyperplasia associated with normal gestation, or molar pregnancy. It is characterized by the swelling of the CHORIONIC VILLI and elevated human CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN. Hydatidiform moles or molar pregnancy may be categorized as complete or partial based on their gross morphology, histopathology, and karyotype.
hydatidiform mole nos	Trophoblastic hyperplasia associated with normal gestation, or molar pregnancy. It is characterized by the swelling of the CHORIONIC VILLI and elevated human CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN. Hydatidiform moles or molar pregnancy may be categorized as complete or partial based on their gross morphology, histopathology, and karyotype.
miscarriage of pregnancy	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
anembryonic pregnancy	Pregnancy loss with visible gestational sac or yolk sac or both but no visible embryo on ultrasonogram.
placental hamartoma	Hamartoma-like growth in the placenta consisting of blood vessels. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:20594143, PMID:24251055]
breus; mole	A large maternal clot that separates the chorionic plate from the villous chorion. [PMID:11125254, UToronto:chum]
vaginal expulsion of fetus	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
induced abortion	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
spontaneous abortions	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
habitual aborter	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
incomplete miscarriage	The uterus is not entirely emptied of products of conception following spontaneous, medical or operative pregnancy termination.
genitourinary diseases	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the genitourinary system.
disorder of reproductive system	deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the reproductive system.
abortions spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
pregnancy miscarriage	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous abortion in second trimester	Pregnancy loss between 14 weeks 0 days and 21 weeks 6 days gestation.
cdrh terminology	Terminology used in individual case reports for voluntary and mandatory reporting of adverse reactions or adverse events during both pre and post approval periods of medical device development and usage.
genomics data commons terminology	Terminology that supports the Genomic Data Commons (GDC).
annex e	Terms/codes for describing the clinical signs and symptoms or conditions of the affected person appearing as a result of the medical device adverse event/incident used by the CDRH.
gdc value terminology	Terminology that supports the values for properties in the Genomic Data Commons (GDC) data model.
illegally induced abortion	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
illegally induced abortion nos	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
termination of pregnancy	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegal abortion unspecified	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
illegal abortion	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortion induced	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
termination of preg.	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
abortion illegal	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
pregnancy termination	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
induced abortions	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
criminal abortions	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
unspecified illegal abortion nos	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortions induced	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
unspecified abortion	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
recurrent miscarriage	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
miscarriage recurrent	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
abortion habitual	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
relapse	The return of a disease after a period of remission.
recurrent aborter	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
recurrent	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
recurrent abortion	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
relapsing -retired-	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
habitual aborter - unspecified	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
chronic spontaneous abortion	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
relapsing	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
habitual abortions	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
retained products after spontaneous abortion	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
incomplete spontaneous abortion nos	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
incomplete abortion	The uterus is not entirely emptied of products of conception following spontaneous, medical or operative pregnancy termination.
retained tissue after pregnancy loss	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
miscarriages	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
sequelae	A pathologic condition that results from a disease, treatment, or injury.
content retention	The condition of remaining in a place or position or of holding within.
abortion miss	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
progesterone	The major progestational steroid that is secreted primarily by the CORPUS LUTEUM and the PLACENTA. Progesterone acts on the UTERUS, the MAMMARY GLANDS and the BRAIN. It is required in EMBRYO IMPLANTATION; PREGNANCY maintenance, and the development of mammary tissue for MILK production. Progesterone, converted from PREGNENOLONE, also serves as an intermediate in the biosynthesis of GONADAL STEROID HORMONES and adrenal CORTICOSTEROIDS.
foetal disorders	Pathophysiological conditions of the FETUS in the UTERUS. Some fetal diseases may be treated with FETAL THERAPIES.
miss abortion	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
retention	The condition of remaining in a place or position or of holding within.
fetal dis	Pathophysiological conditions of the FETUS in the UTERUS. Some fetal diseases may be treated with FETAL THERAPIES.
fetal structures	The anatomical parts that make up a viviparous mammalian organism in the postembryonic period of development.
infective abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
sepsis	Systemic inflammatory response syndrome with a proven or suspected infectious etiology. When sepsis is associated with organ dysfunction distant from the site of infection, it is called severe sepsis. When sepsis is accompanied by HYPOTENSION despite adequate fluid infusion, it is called SEPTIC SHOCK.
septic abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
infectious disorder	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
infective agent	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
microbials	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
abortion; sepsis	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
microorganism	Microorganisms, bacteria, fungi and other organisms.
systemic infectious disease	Systemic inflammatory response syndrome with a proven or suspected infectious etiology. When sepsis is associated with organ dysfunction distant from the site of infection, it is called severe sepsis. When sepsis is accompanied by HYPOTENSION despite adequate fluid infusion, it is called SEPTIC SHOCK.
blood	A liquid tissue with the primary function of transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide. It supplies the tissues with nutrients, removes waste products, and contains various components of the immune system defending the body against infection.
infected abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
infectious disease	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
abortion septic	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
single-celled organism	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
therapeutic abortions	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
therapeutic abortion procedure	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
therapeutics	Procedures concerned with the remedial treatment or prevention of diseases.
therapeutic abortion	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
pregnancy termination counselling	Consulting with a client/patient, who wishes to have an elective abortion, to discuss and/or plan her treatment. Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
abortion ther	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
legal termination of pregnancy	Lawfully induced expulsion of all products of conception.
uterus	The hollow thick-walled muscular organ in the female PELVIS. It consists of the fundus which is the site of EMBRYO IMPLANTATION and FETAL DEVELOPMENT. Beyond the isthmus at the perineal end of fundus, is CERVIX UTERI (the neck) opening into VAGINA. Beyond the isthmi at the upper abdominal end of fundus, are the FALLOPIAN TUBES.
top - termination of pregnancy	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
therapeutic; abortion	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
uterine	The hollow thick-walled muscular organ in the female PELVIS. It consists of the fundus which is the site of EMBRYO IMPLANTATION and FETAL DEVELOPMENT. Beyond the isthmus at the perineal end of fundus, is CERVIX UTERI (the neck) opening into VAGINA. Beyond the isthmi at the upper abdominal end of fundus, are the FALLOPIAN TUBES.
therapeutic	Relating to or involved in therapy.
ther abortion	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
evacuation	Removal of the contents of a body cavity or container
uterine structure	The hollow thick-walled muscular organ in the female PELVIS. It consists of the fundus which is the site of EMBRYO IMPLANTATION and FETAL DEVELOPMENT. Beyond the isthmus at the perineal end of fundus, is CERVIX UTERI (the neck) opening into VAGINA. Beyond the isthmi at the upper abdominal end of fundus, are the FALLOPIAN TUBES.
induced; abortion	Abortion brought on intentionally.
threatened abortion	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
ergometrine	An ergot alkaloid (ERGOT ALKALOIDS) with uterine and VASCULAR SMOOTH MUSCLE contractile properties.
threatened; miscarriage	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
phenprocoumon	Coumarin derivative that acts as a long acting oral anticoagulant.
abortion; threatened	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
anisindione	A synthetic indanedione anticoagulant. Anisindione interferes with the vitamin K-dependent hepatic synthesis of active clotting factors by inhibiting the reduction of vitamin K. This leads to an inhibition of gamma-carboxylation of glutamic acid residues to gamma-carboxyglutamic acid in clotting factors II, VII, IX and X. The consequential effects of this inhibition include a reduced activity of these clotting factors and prolonged blood clotting time.
sodium warfarin	The sodium salt form of warfarin, a coumarin and a vitamin K antagonist, with anticoagulant activity. Warfarin sodium inhibits both vitamin K and vitamin K epoxide reductases, thereby interfering with the cyclic interconversion of vitamin K epoxide to its reduced form, vitamin KH2. Vitamin KH2 is a cofactor for the carboxylation of glutamate residues on the N-terminal regions of vitamin K-dependent proteins. As a result, maturation of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X and anticoagulant proteins C and S is inhibited. Without these coagulation factors, thrombogenesis and blood clot formation are prevented. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1658" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1658" NCI Thesaurus)
pregnancy	The status during which female mammals carry their developing young (EMBRYOS or FETUSES) in utero before birth, beginning from FERTILIZATION to BIRTH.
abortion threatened	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
antepartum hemorrhage	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
antepart hem nos-antepar	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
pregnancy complication	Conditions or pathological processes associated with pregnancy. They can occur during or after pregnancy, and range from minor discomforts to serious diseases that require medical interventions. They include diseases in pregnant females, and pregnancies in females with diseases.
veterinary abortion	Premature expulsion of the FETUS in animals.
abreaction	A process in psychotherapy in which the patient is "desensitized" to emotionally painful, often forgotten (repressed) memories by recalling and reacting to them in the "safety" of the treatment setting.
catharses	The release of ideas, thoughts, and repressed material from the unconscious, accompanied by an emotional response and relief. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
abrin	A toxic lectin from the seeds of jequirity, Abrus precatorius L. Very active poison. Five different proteins have so far been isolated: Abrus agglutinin, the component responsible for: hemagglutinating activity, & abrins a-d, the toxic principals each consisting of two peptide chains are held together by disulfide bonds.
toxin	A substance that is produced by a living organism and is toxic, noxious, or poisonous.
biological toxin	poison, usually protein, produced by higher plants, animals, or microorganisms that is toxic to other living organisms.
abrins	A toxic lectin from the seeds of jequirity, Abrus precatorius L. Very active poison. Five different proteins have so far been isolated: Abrus agglutinin, the component responsible for: hemagglutinating activity, & abrins a-d, the toxic principals each consisting of two peptide chains are held together by disulfide bonds.
chemical challenge agent name response	Terminology related to the names of chemical challenge agents.
abruptio placentae	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental disorders	Pathological processes or abnormal functions of the PLACENTA.
placental abruptions	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
traumatic hemorrhage	Vascular rupture, and the resulting loss of blood, due to physical injury.
placental abruption	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
traumatic haemorrhage	Vascular rupture, and the resulting loss of blood, due to physical injury.
premature detachment of placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
hemorrhage nos	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
accidental hemorrhage	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placenta	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
ablatio placentae	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placentomes	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
premature separation of placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
antepartum haemorrhage	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
abruptio placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
bleeding	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
placenta; abruptio	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
accidental haemorrhage	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
premature placental detachment	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
non-neoplastic placenta disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that arises from the placenta. Representative examples include chorioamnionitis, infarction, and malformations.
placental separation	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
genitourinary system	All the organs involved in reproduction and the formation and release of URINE. It includes the kidneys, ureters, BLADDER; URETHRA, and the organs of reproduction - ovaries, UTERUS; FALLOPIAN TUBES; VAGINA; and CLITORIS in women and the testes; SEMINAL VESICLES; PROSTATE; seminal ducts; and PENIS in men.
placenta abruptio	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
female genital tract	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
reproductive system	heading term for the organs, glands, tissues, etc that function in producing offspring.
placentae; ablatio	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
anomaly placenta	An abnormality of the placenta, the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange. [HPO:probinson]
placenta; detachment	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
antepartum hemorrhage accidental	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental abruption unspecified	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
bleed	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
placental disorder	Pathological processes or abnormal functions of the PLACENTA.
haemorrhages	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
abscess	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
cefotetan	A semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic that is administered intravenously or intramuscularly. The drug is highly resistant to a broad spectrum of beta-lactamases and is active against a wide range of both aerobic and anaerobic gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms.
cefoxitin	A semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic resistant to beta-lactamase.
metronidazole	A nitroimidazole used to treat AMEBIASIS; VAGINITIS; TRICHOMONAS INFECTIONS; GIARDIASIS; ANAEROBIC BACTERIA; and TREPONEMAL INFECTIONS.
metronidazole benzoate	The benzoate ester of metronidazole, a synthetic nitroimidazole derivative with antiprotozoal and antibacterial activities.
cefoxitin sodium	The sodium salt form of cefoxitin, a beta-lactam, second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Cefoxitin sodium binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. PBPs participate in the terminal stages of assembling the bacterial cell wall, and in reshaping the cell wall during cell division. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and causes cell lysis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C28915" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C28915" NCI Thesaurus)
abscess nos	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
cefotetan disodium	The disodium salt form of cefotetan and a semi-synthetic, broad-spectrum, beta-lactamase-resistant, second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Cefotetan disodium causes inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis by inactivating penicillin binding proteins (PBPs) thereby interfering with the final transpeptidation step required for cross-linking of peptidoglycan units which are a component of the cell wall. This results in a reduction of cell wall stability and causes cell lysis.
inflammation	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
infection	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
boiled skin	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
abscess morphology	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
unknown eubacteria	One of the three domains of life (the others being Eukarya and ARCHAEA), also called Eubacteria. They are unicellular prokaryotic microorganisms which generally possess rigid cell walls, multiply by cell division, and exhibit three principal forms: round or coccal, rodlike or bacillary, and spiral or spirochetal. Bacteria can be classified by their response to OXYGEN: aerobic, anaerobic, or facultatively anaerobic; by the mode by which they obtain their energy: chemotrophy (via chemical reaction) or PHOTOTROPHY (via light reaction); for chemotrophs by their source of chemical energy: CHEMOLITHOTROPHY (from inorganic compounds) or chemoorganotrophy (from organic compounds); and by their source for CARBON; NITROGEN; etc.; HETEROTROPHY (from organic sources) or AUTOTROPHY (from CARBON DIOXIDE). They can also be classified by whether or not they stain (based on the structure of their CELL WALLS) with CRYSTAL VIOLET dye: gram-negative or gram-positive.
infections and infestations	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
skin/subcutis	A tissue sample that contains the epidermis, dermis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue.
abscesses cutaneous	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
transmissible disease	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
corticosteroid sensitive aseptic abscess syndrome	A well-defined entity within the group of auto inflammatory disorders, it is a rare disease with 49 cases documented so far. It affects mainly young adults and is characterized by recurrent attacks of fever and deep abscess-like collections, most frequently localized in the abdomen. Aseptic abscesses may be either isolated or associated with an underlying condition such as relapsing polychondritis or inflammatory bowel disease. Antibiotics fail to cure the patients but dramatic improvements are seen with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs.
diseases inflammatory	An infectious or non infectious disorder characterized by signs and symptoms derived from focal or extensive tissue infiltration by acute (e.g., polymorphonuclear) or chronic (e.g., lymphocytic-plasmacytic) inflammatory cells. Representative examples of infectious disorders include viral infections, bacterial infections, and parasitic infections. Representative examples of non-infectious inflammatory disorders include inflammatory bowel disease and inflammatory polyps.
pleurisy; purulent	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
pyothorax	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
abscess; intracranial	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
abscesses	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
corneal abscess	An abscess of the cornea.
parapharyngeal; abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
retro-pharyngeal abscess nos	An accumulation of purulent material in the space between the PHARYNX and the CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. This usually results from SUPPURATION of retropharyngeal LYMPH NODES in patients with UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS, perforation of the pharynx, or head and neck injuries.
anorectal abscess	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
abscess; tuberculous	An abscess resulting from infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
disorders	A definite pathologic process with a characteristic set of signs and symptoms. It may affect the whole body or any of its parts, and its etiology, pathology, and prognosis may be known or unknown.
inflammatory disease	An infectious or non infectious disorder characterized by signs and symptoms derived from focal or extensive tissue infiltration by acute (e.g., polymorphonuclear) or chronic (e.g., lymphocytic-plasmacytic) inflammatory cells. Representative examples of infectious disorders include viral infections, bacterial infections, and parasitic infections. Representative examples of non-infectious inflammatory disorders include inflammatory bowel disease and inflammatory polyps.
contagious disease	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
brain abscess	A circumscribed collection of purulent exudate in the brain, due to bacterial and other infections. The majority are caused by spread of infected material from a focus of suppuration elsewhere in the body, notably the PARANASAL SINUSES, middle ear (see EAR, MIDDLE); HEART (see also ENDOCARDITIS, BACTERIAL), and LUNG. Penetrating CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA and NEUROSURGICAL PROCEDURES may also be associated with this condition. Clinical manifestations include HEADACHE; SEIZURES; focal neurologic deficits; and alterations of consciousness. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp712-6)
hepatic abscesses	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
rectal abscess	A collection of pus in the area of the rectum. [HPO:probinson]
spinal extradural abscess	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
vulval abcess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
inguinal abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
peritoneal abscess	The presence of an abscess of the peritoneum. [HPO:probinson]
inflammatory disorder abscess	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
dental abscess	A pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth. [HPO:probinson]
testicular abscess	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
sterile abscess	An abscess not caused by infection with pyogenic bacteria. Operationally, a sterile abscess is inferred if investigations of an abscess fail to reveal evidence of pathogenic organisms. []
microabscess	A very small, tiny abscess.
abscess sterile	An abscess not caused by infection with pyogenic bacteria. Operationally, a sterile abscess is inferred if investigations of an abscess fail to reveal evidence of pathogenic organisms. []
brain--abscess	A circumscribed collection of purulent exudate in the brain, due to bacterial and other infections. The majority are caused by spread of infected material from a focus of suppuration elsewhere in the body, notably the PARANASAL SINUSES, middle ear (see EAR, MIDDLE); HEART (see also ENDOCARDITIS, BACTERIAL), and LUNG. Penetrating CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA and NEUROSURGICAL PROCEDURES may also be associated with this condition. Clinical manifestations include HEADACHE; SEIZURES; focal neurologic deficits; and alterations of consciousness. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp712-6)
pleural empyema	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
lung empyema	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
abscess of thorax	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
thoracic abscess	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
intracranial abscess	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
hepatic abscess	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
liver abscess	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess hepatic	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscesses hepatic	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
amebiasis; hepatic	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
amoebic liver abscess	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
amebic liver abscess	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
amoebic liver abscesses	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
lung abscess	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess lung	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
lung abscesses	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscesses pulm	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
pelvic abscess	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
abscesses pelvic	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
abscess pelvic	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
perianal abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues surrounding the anal canal. Causes include bacterial and fungal infections, malignancies that involve the perianal region, and Crohn disease.
apical abscess	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
tooth root periapical abscess	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
periodontal abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
lateral alveolar abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
parodontal abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
quinsy	An accumulation of purulent material in the area between the PALATINE TONSIL and its capsule.
subdural abscess	An intracranial or rarely intraspinal suppurative process invading the space between the inner surface of the DURA MATER and the outer surface of the ARACHNOID.
subdural empyema	An intracranial or rarely intraspinal suppurative process invading the space between the inner surface of the DURA MATER and the outer surface of the ARACHNOID.
subphrenic abscess	Accumulation of purulent EXUDATES beneath the DIAPHRAGM, also known as upper abdominal abscess. It is usually associated with PERITONITIS or postoperative infections.
tubo-ovarian abscess	An abscess involving the distal fallopian tube and ovary. It is caused by pelvic inflammatory disease or other infections.
tuboovarian abscess	An abscess involving the distal fallopian tube and ovary. It is caused by pelvic inflammatory disease or other infections.
psoas abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
psoas muscle abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
iliopsoas abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
iliopsoas abscesses	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
boils rectal	A collection of pus in the area of the rectum. [HPO:probinson]
cutaneous abscess	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
skin abscess	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
renal abscess	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
parapharyngeal abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
abscess of parapharyngeal space	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
retropharyngeal abscess	An accumulation of purulent material in the space between the PHARYNX and the CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. This usually results from SUPPURATION of retropharyngeal LYMPH NODES in patients with UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS, perforation of the pharynx, or head and neck injuries.
renal and perinephric abscess	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
renal/perirenal abscess	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
renal/perinephric abscess	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
retroperitoneal abscess	An abscess that is located in the abdominal cavity posterior to the peritoneum.
perinephric abscess	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
perirenal abscess	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
pancreatic abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
spinal epidural abscess	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
abdominal abscess	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
vulval abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess of vulva	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
vulvar abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess; vulva	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess groin	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
groin abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
abscess of groin	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
axillary abscess	A collection of pus that has formed in the axilla.
periapical abscess with sinus	Localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth and is associated with the presence of a sinus tract.
mesenteric abscess	An abscess that is located in any part of the tissue composing the mesentery, and that generally arises from an infection in an adjacent area of the intestine.
pyogenic hepatic abscesses	Varbildning i leverparenkymet till följd av bakterieinfektion. Abscessen kan vara orsakad av en rad olika bakterier, lokal eller spridd från infektioner i andra organ, som t ex blindtarmsinflammation, gallblåseinflammation, bukhinneinflammation, eller efter levertransplantation.
pyogenic liver abscess	Varbildning i leverparenkymet till följd av bakterieinfektion. Abscessen kan vara orsakad av en rad olika bakterier, lokal eller spridd från infektioner i andra organ, som t ex blindtarmsinflammation, gallblåseinflammation, bukhinneinflammation, eller efter levertransplantation.
epidural abscess	Circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial EPIDURAL SPACE. The majority of epidural abscesses occur in the spinal canal and are associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a vertebral body; ANALGESIA, EPIDURAL; and other conditions. Clinical manifestations include local and radicular pain, weakness, sensory loss, URINARY INCONTINENCE, and FECAL INCONTINENCE. Cranial epidural abscesses are usually associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a cranial bone, SINUSITIS, or OTITIS MEDIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p710 and pp1240-1; J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998 Aug;65(2):209-12)
pituitary abscess	An inflammatory or infectious process in the pituitary gland characterized by a circumscribed, walled collection of purulent material.
abscessed lymph nodes	An abscess that develops in a lymph node and the surrounding tissues as a result of an infectious process. The affected lymph node is palpable and tender.
splenic abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen. [PMID:21319348]
cerebral cysticercosis	Infection of the brain, spinal cord, or perimeningeal structures with the larval forms of the genus TAENIA (primarily T. solium in humans). Lesions formed by the organism are referred to as cysticerci. The infection may be subacute or chronic, and the severity of symptoms depends on the severity of the host immune response and the location and number of lesions. SEIZURES represent the most common clinical manifestation although focal neurologic deficits may occur. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1998, Ch27, pp46-50)
abscess of thyroid	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
teeth; abscess	A pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth. [HPO:probinson]
testis; abscess	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
abscess testis	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
intratesticular abscess	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
labial abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
abscess of the labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
abscess of labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
tuberculous abscess	An abscess resulting from infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
parenchymal intracranial abscess	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
cerebral abscess	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
pilonidal cyst with abscess	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
suppurative pleurisy	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
abscess; anorectal	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
abscess; extradural	Circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial EPIDURAL SPACE. The majority of epidural abscesses occur in the spinal canal and are associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a vertebral body; ANALGESIA, EPIDURAL; and other conditions. Clinical manifestations include local and radicular pain, weakness, sensory loss, URINARY INCONTINENCE, and FECAL INCONTINENCE. Cranial epidural abscesses are usually associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a cranial bone, SINUSITIS, or OTITIS MEDIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p710 and pp1240-1; J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998 Aug;65(2):209-12)
lymph node abscessed	An abscess that develops in a lymph node and the surrounding tissues as a result of an infectious process. The affected lymph node is palpable and tender.
diseases	A definite pathologic process with a characteristic set of signs and symptoms. It may affect the whole body or any of its parts, and its etiology, pathology, and prognosis may be known or unknown.
communicable disease	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
infectious agent	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
abscess; brain	A circumscribed collection of purulent exudate in the brain, due to bacterial and other infections. The majority are caused by spread of infected material from a focus of suppuration elsewhere in the body, notably the PARANASAL SINUSES, middle ear (see EAR, MIDDLE); HEART (see also ENDOCARDITIS, BACTERIAL), and LUNG. Penetrating CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA and NEUROSURGICAL PROCEDURES may also be associated with this condition. Clinical manifestations include HEADACHE; SEIZURES; focal neurologic deficits; and alterations of consciousness. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp712-6)
gallbladder empyema	Přítomnost hnisu ve žlučníku.
empyema chest	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
abscess of pleural cavity	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
intracranial abscess nos	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
intracranial; abscess	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
abscess of liver	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
liver--abscess	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
amoebic hepatic abscesses	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
abscess of lung	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess; lung	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess perianal	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues surrounding the anal canal. Causes include bacterial and fungal infections, malignancies that involve the perianal region, and Crohn disease.
peridental abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
paradontal; abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
abscess; periodontal	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
lateral periodontal abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
periodontal; abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
abscess; peridental	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
peritonsillar abscess	An accumulation of purulent material in the area between the PALATINE TONSIL and its capsule.
tubo ovarian abscess	An abscess involving the distal fallopian tube and ovary. It is caused by pelvic inflammatory disease or other infections.
pyogenic iliopsoas abscesses	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
abscess skin	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
nephric abscess	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
kidney abscess	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
peripharyngeal; abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
peripharyngeal abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
renal and perinephric abscess nos	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
abscess; retroperitoneal	An abscess that is located in the abdominal cavity posterior to the peritoneum.
perirenal; abscess	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
abscess; perirenal	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
pancreas; abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
abscess of pancreas	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
intra-abdominal abscess	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abscess vulva	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
loin abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
dentoalveolar abscess with sinus tract	Localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth and is associated with the presence of a sinus tract.
periapical abscess with a sinus	Localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth and is associated with the presence of a sinus tract.
abscess anorectal	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
abscess - anal/rectal	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
abscess; pituitary	An inflammatory or infectious process in the pituitary gland characterized by a circumscribed, walled collection of purulent material.
lymph node abscess	An abscess that develops in a lymph node and the surrounding tissues as a result of an infectious process. The affected lymph node is palpable and tender.
thyroid; abscess	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
abscesses dental	A pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth. [HPO:probinson]
abscess of testis	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
abscess; testis	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
abscess;labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
abscess labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
labia abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
cerebral; abscess	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
abscess of pelvis	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
ureter abscess	An abscess that is located in the ureter.
subdiaphragmatic abscess	Accumulation of purulent EXUDATES beneath the DIAPHRAGM, also known as upper abdominal abscess. It is usually associated with PERITONITIS or postoperative infections.
skin boil	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
abscess - renal	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
abscess perinephric	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
abdominal abscesses intra	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abscessation of lymph node	An abscess that develops in a lymph node and the surrounding tissues as a result of an infectious process. The affected lymph node is palpable and tender.
spleen; abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen. [PMID:21319348]
crypt abscess	Accumulation of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in the mucosal crypts of the colon. It occurs in ulcerative colitis.
vagina; abscess	An abscess that is located in the vagina.
adrenal gland abscess	An abscess that is located in the adrenal gland.
parathyroid gland abscess	An abscess that is located in the parathyroid gland(s).
perihepatic abscess	An abscess that is located in the anatomical space surrounding the liver, but which is outside of the liver capsule itself.
prevertebral abscess	An abscess that develops in the tissues within the prevertebral fascia.
send-nonneo	The terminology that includes concepts relevant to non-neoplastic microscopic findings.
pediatric infectious disease terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events in the pediatric population with issues pertaining to infectious diseases.
abscisic acid	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
phytohormone	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
plant growth reg	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
phytohormones	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
plant hormone	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
abscisin	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
plant growth regulators	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
growth reg plant	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
aplasia	A congenital abnormality resulting in the absence of an anatomical structure.
cdisc terminology	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium.
corpus callosum agenesis	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
athelia	Congenital failure to develop, and absence of, the nipple. []
syndrome potter	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
agenesis of diaphragm	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
absence of diaphragm	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
femoral aplasia	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
proximal phocomelia of lower limb	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
nose agenesia	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary agenesis	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
apulmonism	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
congenital absence of pulmonary artery	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
agenesis of gallbladder	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
hepatic agenesis	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis; liver	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of uterus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
complete dental agenesis	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
teeth absent	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
agenesis of the lower vagina	A failure to develop of the lower part of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of cervical vertebra	Agenesis of one or more vertebrae of the cervical vertebral column. [HPO:probinson]
absent kidney	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
absent spleen	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
mandibular aplasia	Absence of the mandible. [HPO:curators]
agenesis of maxilla	A congenital defect characterized by absence of the Maxilla. [HPO:probinson]
failure of development of maxilla	A congenital defect characterized by absence of the Maxilla. [HPO:probinson]
absent thymus	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
athymia	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
tracheal absence	Congenital absence of the trachea.
acrorenoocular syndromes	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
sommer hines syndrome	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of the presence of a single digit on all four extremities. The malformation is typically isolated however, aplastic and hypoplastic defects in the remaining skeletal parts of hands and feet have been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
tetra-amelia	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
autosomal recessive tetra-amelia	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
zimmer taub sova syndrome	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
tetraamelia with multiple malformation syndrome	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
zimmer phocomelia	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
bilateral pulmonary agenesis	Bilateral lack of development of the lungs. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of bilateral lungs	Bilateral lack of development of the lungs. [HPO:probinson]
lowry syndrome	An extremely rare genetic disease reported in only two brothers to date with the combination of craniosynostosis (involving both coronal sutures), congenital absence of the fibula, cryptorchidism, and bilateral simian creases. Intelligence is normal. There have been no further reports in the literature since 1972.
sommer rathbun battles syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome reported in two siblings of non-consanguineous parents with the association of ocular abnormalities (partial aniridia, congenital glaucoma, telecanthus) with frontal bossing, hypertelorism, unilateral renal agenesis and mild psychomotor delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1974.
isolated arhinencephaly	A rare non-syndromic central nervous system malformation defined by the agenesis of the olfactory bulbs and tracts and with characteristics of complete congenital anosmia.
enamel ageneses	Una forma de amelogénesis imperfecta caracterizada por formación incompleta del esmalte dental y transmitida como rasgo autosómico dominante o ligado al cromosoma X.
anophthalmos nos	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
agenesis of vertebra	A developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies. [PMID:26167231]
absent vertebrae	A developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies. [PMID:26167231]
corpus callosum dysgeneses	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
syndrome; potter	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
diaphragm aplasia	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
acheiria	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
agenesis; hand	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
agenesis of foot	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
absent femur	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
aplasia of lung	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
congenital absence of lung	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
pulmonary artery agenesis	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
atresia; gallbladder	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
congenital absence of liver	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
aplasia of uterus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
ablepharon - absent eyelids	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
congenital edentia	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
partial agenesis of corpus callosum	A partial failure of the development of the corpus callosum. [HPO:curators]
aplasia of the lower vagina	A failure to develop of the lower part of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of spleen	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
splenic agenesis	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
agenesis of thymus	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of auricle	Complete absence of any auricular structures. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125421]
agenesis; trachea	Congenital absence of the trachea.
agenesis of parathyroid gland	Aplasia of the parathyroid gland. [HPO:probinson]
vici syndrome	A very rare and severe congenital multisystem disorder with the principal features of agenesis of the corpus callosum, cataracts, oculocutaneous hypopigmentation, cardiomyopathy and combined immunodeficiency. Usually diagnosed in the first years of life. The phenotype is variable but the principal diagnostic features are almost always present at onset or evolve over time. Caused by mutations in the EPG5 gene (18q12.3) which encodes an important autophagy regulator, ectopic P-granules autophagy protein 5 (epg5). Formation of autolysosomes is specifically disturbed by an epg5 deficiency.
holzgreve syndrome	An extremely rare lethal multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of renal agenesis with Potter sequence, cleft lip/palate, oral synechiae, cardiac defects, and skeletal abnormalities including postaxial polydactyly. Intestinal nonfixation and intrauterine growth restriction are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
tetraamelia	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
tetra-amelia with multiple malformation syndrome	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
x-linked intellectual disability kroes type	A rare genetic syndrome with cerebellar malformation as a major feature. Characteristics included cerebellar vermis hypo or aplasia, ventriculomegaly, agenesis of corpus callosum and abnormalities of the brainstem and cerebral cortex in association with ocular coloboma. Clinically, patients show hydrocephalus at birth, neonatal hypotonia with abnormal breathing pattern, and ocular abnormalities with impaired vision, severe psychomotor delay, and seizures.
anophthalmos of bilateral eyes	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of ocular tissue in both orbits.
agenesis of internal carotid artery	A developmental defect that may be asymptomatic or lead to cerebrovascular lesions. It is a rare malformation, with only around hundred cases reported in the literature. When symptoms are present, they are caused by cerebrovascular insufficiency, compression of the brain by vessels that dilate to compensate for the absence of the internal carotid artery, or the presence of an aneurysm. Associated intracranial aneurysms occur in 25 to 35% of patients.
absenteeism	Chronic absence from work or other duty.
truancy	Student's deliberate, often chronic absence from school without an accepted medical or other justifiable reason.
behavior	The observable response of a man or animal to a situation.
absidia species	A genus of zygomycetous fungi, family Mucoraceae, order MUCORALES, which sometimes causes infection in humans.
mucoromycotina	A taxonomic grouping of saprotrophic fungi in the Mucoromycotina subphylum.
absidia	A genus of zygomycetous fungi, family Mucoraceae, order MUCORALES, which sometimes causes infection in humans.
cdisc sdtm microorganism terminology	Microorganisms, bacteria, fungi and other organisms.
mucorales	An order of zygomycetous fungi, usually saprophytic, causing damage to food in storage, but which may cause respiratory infection or MUCORMYCOSIS in persons suffering from other debilitating diseases.
photon absorptiometry	A noninvasive method for assessing BODY COMPOSITION. It is based on the differential absorption of X-RAYS (or GAMMA RAYS) by different tissues such as bone, fat and other soft tissues. The source of (X-ray or gamma-ray) photon beam is generated either from radioisotopes such as GADOLINIUM 153, IODINE 125, or Americanium 241 which emit GAMMA RAYS in the appropriate range; or from an X-ray tube which produces X-RAYS in the desired range. It is primarily used for quantitating BONE MINERAL CONTENT, especially for the diagnosis of OSTEOPOROSIS, and also in measuring BONE MINERALIZATION.
dual x ray absorptiometry	An imaging test that measures bone density (the amount of bone mineral contained in a certain volume of bone) by passing x-rays with two different energy levels through the bone. It is used to diagnose osteoporosis (decrease in bone mass and density).
dpx absorptiometry	An imaging test that measures bone density (the amount of bone mineral contained in a certain volume of bone) by passing x-rays with two different energy levels through the bone. It is used to diagnose osteoporosis (decrease in bone mass and density).
abstracting	The process of creating a summary of the main points of an article, argument, or theory.
action	A thing done.
indexing abstracting	Works about activities performed to identify concepts and aspects of published information and research reports.
indexing	Analytisk emneordsbeskrivelse av arbeider innen et bestemt vitenskapsområde.
indexing and abstracting	Works about activities performed to identify concepts and aspects of published information and research reports.
abstracts	A written summary of the important points of a scientific article.
acacia	A plant genus of the family FABACEAE. The gums and tanning agents obtained from Acacia are called GUM ARABIC. The common name catechu is more often used for Areca catechu (ARECA).
conifer	Podskupina rostlin s vyvinutými cévními svazky. Příkladem jsou kapraďorosty a semenné rostliny.
family leguminosae	large family of angiosperm plants characterized by pods.
univ med centers	Medical complexes consisting of medical school, hospitals, clinics, libraries, administrative facilities, etc.
environment: hospital	Physical, organizational, or psychological characteristics of a hospital, and their potential impact on hospital staff and patients.
acanthamoeba sp	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba culbertsoni	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba culbertsoni.
acanthamoeba species	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba polyphaga	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba polyphaga.
acanthamoeba astronyxise	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba astronyxis.
acanthamoeba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba hatchetti	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba hatchetti.
acanthamoeba rhysodes	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba rhysodes.
acanthamoeba griffini	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba griffini.
acanthamoeba lugdunensis	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba lugdunensis.
acanthamoebas	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba quina	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba quina.
genus: acanthameba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba keratitis	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
acanthameba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba castellanii	En art jordlevande amöbor som tillhör familljen Acanthamoebidae. Den kan orsaka hjärninflammation och hornhinneinflammation hos människor.
acanthameba astronyxis	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba astronyxis.
acanthamoeba sp.	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthoamoeba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba castellani	En art jordlevande amöbor som tillhör familljen Acanthamoebidae. Den kan orsaka hjärninflammation och hornhinneinflammation hos människor.
acanthameba astronyxise	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba astronyxis.
acanthameba keratitis	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
product containing ketoconazole	Broad spectrum antifungal agent used for long periods at high doses, especially in immunosuppressed patients.
corneal infection	A disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the cornea.
cornea	The transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye consisting of five layers: stratified squamous CORNEAL EPITHELIUM; BOWMAN MEMBRANE; CORNEAL STROMA; DESCEMET MEMBRANE; and mesenchymal CORNEAL ENDOTHELIUM. It serves as the first refracting medium of the eye. It is structurally continuous with the SCLERA, avascular, receiving its nourishment by permeation through spaces between the lamellae, and is innervated by the ophthalmic division of the TRIGEMINAL NERVE via the ciliary nerves and those of the surrounding conjunctiva which together form plexuses. (Cline et al., Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
infectious diseases	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
keratitis	Inflammation of the cornea.
acanthamoeba keratitides	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
parasitic ocular infection	Mild to severe infections of the eye and its adjacent structures (adnexa) by adult or larval protozoan or metazoan parasites.
disease caused by parasite	Infections or infestations with PARASITES. They are often contracted through contact with an intermediate vector, but may occur as the result of direct exposure.
cornea infection	A disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the cornea.
infectious keratitis	Inflammation of the cornea secondary to an infectious process.
genus: acanthamoeba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
eyeball	Organ with organ cavity which is connected to the optic nerve. Examples: There are only two eyeballs, the right and the left eyeballs..
inflammations	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
inflamm	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
acanthocephala <bugs>	A phylum of parasitic worms, closely related to tapeworms and containing two genera: Moniliformis, which sometimes infects man, and Macracanthorhynchus, which infects swine.
moniliformis	A genus of roundworms of the phylum Acanthocephala, parasitic in rats, mice, hamsters, dogs and cats. Occasional infection in man produces inflammation and ulceration of the intestinal mucosa.
acanthocytes	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
acanthocytosis with neurologic disorder	An inherited autosomal disorder that is characterized by neurodegeneration; orofacial and buccal DYSKINESIAS; CHOREA; and thorny-looking red cells (ACANTHOCYTES). This disorder is due to mutations of chorein which is important in protein trafficking and is encoded by Vps13a on chromosome 9q21.
spur cell	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
erythrocyte production	The production of red blood cells (ERYTHROCYTES). In humans, erythrocytes are produced by the YOLK SAC in the first trimester; by the liver in the second trimester; by the BONE MARROW in the third trimester and after birth. In normal individuals, the erythrocyte count in the peripheral blood remains relatively constant implying a balance between the rate of erythrocyte production and rate of destruction.
acanthrocyte	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
hematopoietic system structure	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
acanthocytosis	Acanthocytosis is a type of poikilocytosis characterized by the presence of spikes on the cell surface. The cells have an irregular shape resembling many-pointed stars. [HPO:probinson]
poikilocytosis	The presence of abnormally shaped erythrocytes. [HPO:probinson]
acanthocyte	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
abnormalities cell red	Any structural abnormality of erythrocytes (red-blood cells). [HPO:probinson]
mcleod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome	A form of neuroacanthocytosis with clinical characteristics of a Huntington's disease-like phenotype with an involuntary hyperkinetic movement disorder, psychiatric manifestations and cognitive alterations, and biochemically by absence of the Kx antigen and by weak expression of the Kell antigens. The disorder is very rare and a few hundred cases are suspected worldwide. About one third of patients present with chorea indistinguishable from that observed in Huntington disease and most patients will develop chorea during the course of the disease. Caused by mutations of the XK gene (Xp21.1) encoding the XK protein, which includes the Kx erythrocyte antigen. Most pathogenic mutations are nonsense mutations or deletions predicting an absent or shortened XK protein lacking the Kell protein-binding site.
acantholysis	Separation of the prickle cells of the stratum spinosum of the epidermis, resulting in atrophy of the prickle cell layer. It is seen in diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris (see PEMPHIGUS) and DARIER DISEASE.
morphology findings	A light microscopic finding that describes the cellular characteristics and architectural patterns of cell populations in a tissue sample.
acantholyses	Separation of the prickle cells of the stratum spinosum of the epidermis, resulting in atrophy of the prickle cell layer. It is seen in diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris (see PEMPHIGUS) and DARIER DISEASE.
skin pseudovascular squamous cell carcinoma	A squamous cell carcinoma of the skin histologically resembling a vascular tumor due to extreme acantholysis.
laryngeal acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma	A rare variant of squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the larynx. It is characterized by acantholysis of the tumor cells that results in the formation of pseudolumina that resemble glandular structures.
abnormality of epidermal morphology	An abnormality of the morphology of the epidermis. [HPO:probinson]
lyses	Tissue structure disintegration and destruction due to action of endogenous or/and exogenous lytic substances which include but not limited to naturally occurring or laboratory designed proteolytic enzymes, glycosidases, detergents, pore-forming proteins, immune complexes, etc. Tissue lysis plays role in pathogenesis of a number of conditions e.g. protozoal infections, ischemic tissue injury, and autoimmune disorders. It is also used as a basis for non-surgical treatment modality to remove or minimize presence of abnormal tissue, e.g. adhesions.
pemphigus	Group of chronic blistering diseases characterized histologically by ACANTHOLYSIS and blister formation within the EPIDERMIS.
pemphigus pv vulgaris	An autoimmune blistering disorder. It is characterized by the presence of painful blisters and erosions in the skin and mucous membranes.
benign familial pemphigus [hailey-hailey]	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
herpetiform pemphigus	A rare superficial pemphigus disease characterized by severe intractable pruritus with erythematous or urticarial plaques and vesicles organized in a herpetiform pattern. Mucosae are generally spared. Eosinophilia in peripheral blood and low titers of circulating autoantibodies are observed in many cases. Histologically, minimal or no apparent acantholysis is associated.
cytolysis	The rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm. [UniProtKB-KW:KW-0204]
familial benign chronic pemphigus	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
acanthosis nigricans	A circumscribed melanosis consisting of a brown-pigmented, velvety verrucosity or fine papillomatosis appearing in the axillae and other body folds. It occurs in association with endocrine disorders, underlying malignancy, administration of certain drugs, or as in inherited disorder.
beare-stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by the premature fusion of the bones of the skull (craniosynostosis) and a skin abnormality called cutis gyrata. The craniosynostosis results in a cloverleaf-shaped skull, wide-set eyes, ear abnormalities, underdeveloped upper jaw, and developmental delays. Cutis gyrata is characterized by a wrinkled skin appearance, especially on the face, near the ears, and on the palms and soles.
acanthosis nigrican	A circumscribed melanosis consisting of a brown-pigmented, velvety verrucosity or fine papillomatosis appearing in the axillae and other body folds. It occurs in association with endocrine disorders, underlying malignancy, administration of certain drugs, or as in inherited disorder.
crouzon syndrome with acanthosis nigricans	A distinct form of Crouzon disease associated with acanthosis nigricans caused by a specific mutation (p.Ala391Glu) in the transmembrane domain of FGFR3. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner with variable penetrance.
darkened and thickened skin	A circumscribed melanosis consisting of a brown-pigmented, velvety verrucosity or fine papillomatosis appearing in the axillae and other body folds. It occurs in association with endocrine disorders, underlying malignancy, administration of certain drugs, or as in inherited disorder.
fcs syndromes	Rare congenital disorder with multiple anomalies including: characteristic dysmorphic craniofacial features, musculoskeletal abnormalities, neurocognitive delay, and high prevalence of cancer. Germline mutations in H-Ras protein can cause Costello syndrome. Costello syndrome shows early phenotypic overlap with other disorders that involve MAP KINASE SIGNALING SYSTEM (e.g., NOONAN SYNDROME and cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome).
total lipodystrophy and acromegaloid gigantism	Je způsobená mutací genu pro seipin (BSCL2).
lelis syndrome	The association of ectodermal dysplasia (hypotrichosis and hypohidrosis) with acanthosis nigricans. So far, only eight cases have been described in the literature. Other clinical features may include palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, nail dystrophy, intellectual deficit and hypodontia. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
integument	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
keratosis nigricans	A circumscribed melanosis consisting of a brown-pigmented, velvety verrucosity or fine papillomatosis appearing in the axillae and other body folds. It occurs in association with endocrine disorders, underlying malignancy, administration of certain drugs, or as in inherited disorder.
abnormal	Deviating in any way from the state, position, structure, condition, behavior, or rule which is considered a norm.
cutis gyrata syndrome of beare-stevenson	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by the premature fusion of the bones of the skull (craniosynostosis) and a skin abnormality called cutis gyrata. The craniosynostosis results in a cloverleaf-shaped skull, wide-set eyes, ear abnormalities, underdeveloped upper jaw, and developmental delays. Cutis gyrata is characterized by a wrinkled skin appearance, especially on the face, near the ears, and on the palms and soles.
integument of body	The outer covering of the body composed of the SKIN and the skin appendages, which are the HAIR, the NAILS; and the SEBACEOUS GLANDS and the SWEAT GLANDS and their ducts.
cutis	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
the integument	The outer covering of the body composed of the SKIN and the skin appendages, which are the HAIR, the NAILS; and the SEBACEOUS GLANDS and the SWEAT GLANDS and their ducts.
acceleration	An increase in the rate of speed.
motion	Physical motion, i.e., a change in position of a body or subject as a result of an external force. It is distinguished from MOVEMENT, a process resulting from biological activity.
accelerations	An increase in the rate of speed.
cervical accessory nerve	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
accessory nerve structure	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
neural tree organ	Nonparenchymatous organ which has as its direct parts an aggregate of neurons, the somas of which are located in the neuraxis and their network of neurites (axons) predominantly located outside the neuraxis.
spinal accessory nerve	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
systema nervosum periphericum	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
accessory nerve [xi]	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
accessory nerve	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
santorini's caruncle	Duodenal papilla, each instance of which is site of opening of some accessory pancreatic duct into lumen of some duodenum.
spinal accessory nerve tree	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
cranial nerve	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
accessory nerves	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
cranial nerve eleven disorders	Sjukdomar i den 11. kranialnerven. Skador på denna nerv kan orsaka försvagning eller förlamning av musculus sternocleidomastoideus och musculus trapezius. Motorneuronsjukdom brukar också omfatta den 1 1. hjärnnerven.
cranial nerve xi	The 11th cranial nerve which originates from NEURONS in the MEDULLA and in the CERVICAL SPINAL CORD. It has a cranial root, which joins the VAGUS NERVE (10th cranial) and sends motor fibers to the muscles of the LARYNX, and a spinal root, which sends motor fibers to the TRAPEZIUS and the sternocleidomastoid muscles.
accident prevention	Efforts and designs to reduce the incidence of unexpected undesirable events in various environments and situations.
prophylaxis	taking advance measures against the occurrence of something possible or probable; prefer NTs.
prylx	taking advance measures against the occurrence of something possible or probable; prefer NTs.
injury preventing	devices or procedures designed to provide personal protection against injury to individuals exposed to hazards in industry, sports, transportation, or daily activities.
accident-prone	Tendency toward involvement in accidents. Implies certain personality characteristics which predispose to accidents.
behavioral finding	The observable response of a man or animal to a situation.
accident prone	Tendency toward involvement in accidents. Implies certain personality characteristics which predispose to accidents.
conducts	The observable response of a man or animal to a situation.
accidental fall	Falls due to slipping or tripping which may result in injury.
fractures	breaks or rupture in bones or cartilages.
falling	A sudden movement downward, usually resulting in injury.
accidents nos	Unexpected and unintentional events, typically resulting in ACCIDENTAL INJURIES.
plane accident	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
accidents	Unexpected and unintentional events, typically resulting in ACCIDENTAL INJURIES.
sporting accident	<p>Incident or accident is the result of a sporting accident.</p>
school accident	<p>Incident or accident is the result of a school place accident.</p>
accidents fall	Unexpected and unintentional events, typically resulting in ACCIDENTAL INJURIES.
accident	Unexpected and unintentional events, typically resulting in ACCIDENTAL INJURIES.
accidental injury	Injuries resulting from events or circumstances that are unforeseen, unplanned, unanticipated, and without premeditation.
traumatic abnormality	A structure damaged by an external force
accident injury	Injuries resulting from events or circumstances that are unforeseen, unplanned, unanticipated, and without premeditation.
accident falls	Unexpected and unintentional events, typically resulting in ACCIDENTAL INJURIES.
traumatic abnormality -retired-	A structure damaged by an external force
falls accidents	Unexpected and unintentional events, typically resulting in ACCIDENTAL INJURIES.
airplane accident	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
accidents and falls	Unexpected and unintentional events, typically resulting in ACCIDENTAL INJURIES.
aviation accidents	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
accident at school	<p>Incident or accident is the result of a school place accident.</p>
aeroplane accident	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
sports accident	<p>Incident or accident is the result of a sporting accident.</p>
aircraft accidents	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
airplane accidents	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
home accidents	ACCIDENTS which occur within the home.
industrial accidents	An accident taking place on the site of a commercial enterprise.
automobile accident	An accident occurring while aboard, or involving, an automobile.
incised wound - morphology	A wound or cleft resulted from tissue separation into parts or laid open or penetrated with a sharp edge or instrument.
trauma	damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force, with or without disruption of structural continuity.
incised wound	A wound or cleft resulted from tissue separation into parts or laid open or penetrated with a sharp edge or instrument.
wounds	bodily injury caused by physical means, with disruption of the normal continuity of structures.
wound	bodily injury caused by physical means, with disruption of the normal continuity of structures.
cut wound	A wound or cleft resulted from tissue separation into parts or laid open or penetrated with a sharp edge or instrument.
wound nos	bodily injury caused by physical means, with disruption of the normal continuity of structures.
physical wound	bodily injury caused by physical means, with disruption of the normal continuity of structures.
morphology wound	bodily injury caused by physical means, with disruption of the normal continuity of structures.
surface wound	A cutaneous wound is a defined as a disruption of normal anatomic structure and function of the skin that occured owing to an injury of the skin. Wound healing is a dynamic, interactive processinvolving soluble mediators, blood cells, extracellularmatrix, and parenchymal cells. Wound healing has three phases: inflammation, tissue formation, and tissue remodeling, that overlap in time. [PMID:10471461]
plane accidents	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
flying accident	Unanticipated events associated with AIRCRAFT.
event	Something that happens at a given place and time.
industrial accident	An accident taking place on the site of a commercial enterprise.
occupational accident	Unforeseen occurrences, especially injuries in the course of work-related activities.
occupational health	The promotion and maintenance of physical and mental health in the work environment.
traffic accident	Accidents on streets, roads, and highways involving drivers, passengers, pedestrians, or vehicles. Traffic accidents refer to AUTOMOBILES (passenger cars, buses, and trucks), BICYCLING, and MOTORCYCLES but not OFF-ROAD MOTOR VEHICLES; RAILROADS nor snowmobiles.
motor vehicle safety	<p>Every year thousands of people in the U.S. die from motor vehicle crashes. Trying to prevent these crashes is one part of motor vehicle safety. Here are some things you can do to be safer on the road:</p> <ul> <li> Make sure your vehicle is safe and in working order</li> <li> Use car seats for children</li> <li> Wear your seat belt</li> <li> Don't speed or drive aggressively</li> <li> Don't drive <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/impaireddriving.html">impaired</a></li> </ul> <p>Safety also involves being aware of others. Share the road with bicycles and motorcycles, and watch for pedestrians.</p>
climate adaptation	Adaptation to a new environment or to a change in the old.
physiologic process	see:http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/MBrowser.html
visual accommodation	The dioptric adjustment of the EYE (to attain maximal sharpness of retinal imagery for an object of regard) referring to the ability, to the mechanism, or to the process. Ocular accommodation is the effecting of refractive changes by changes in the shape of the CRYSTALLINE LENS. Loosely, it refers to ocular adjustments for VISION, OCULAR at various distances. (Cline et al., Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
seeing	sense of sight.
accommodation	The dioptric adjustment of the EYE (to attain maximal sharpness of retinal imagery for an object of regard) referring to the ability, to the mechanism, or to the process. Ocular accommodation is the effecting of refractive changes by changes in the shape of the CRYSTALLINE LENS. Loosely, it refers to ocular adjustments for VISION, OCULAR at various distances. (Cline et al., Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
acculturation	Process of cultural change in which one group or members of a group assimilate various cultural patterns from another.
encephalon	The part of CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM that is contained within the skull (CRANIUM). Arising from the NEURAL TUBE, the embryonic brain is comprised of three major parts including PROSENCEPHALON (the forebrain); MESENCEPHALON (the midbrain); and RHOMBENCEPHALON (the hindbrain). The developed brain consists of CEREBRUM; CEREBELLUM; and other structures in the BRAIN STEM.
nervous system	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
acebutolol	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors. The drug has stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, as well as weak inherent sympathomimetic action.
hypotensives	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
anti hypertensive	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
acebutolol hydrochloride - chemical	The hydrochloride salt form of acebutolol, a synthetic butyranilide derivative with hypotensive and antiarrhythmic activity. Acebutolol acts as a cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist with little effect on bronchial receptors and has intrinsic sympathomimetic properties. Having stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, Acebutolol is used in ventricular arrhythmias. Other indications include hypertension, alone or in combinations with other agents. (NCI04)
antiarrhythmia agent	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
antihypertensive agent	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
anti-arrhythmic agent	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
hypotensive agents	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
antiarrhythmia agents	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
sympathomimetic product	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
acebutolol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of acebutolol, a synthetic butyranilide derivative with hypotensive and antiarrhythmic activity. Acebutolol acts as a cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist with little effect on bronchial receptors and has intrinsic sympathomimetic properties. Having stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, Acebutolol is used in ventricular arrhythmias. Other indications include hypertension, alone or in combinations with other agents. (NCI04)
acetobutolol	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors. The drug has stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, as well as weak inherent sympathomimetic action.
alcohols	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
acebutolol hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of acebutolol, a synthetic butyranilide derivative with hypotensive and antiarrhythmic activity. Acebutolol acts as a cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist with little effect on bronchial receptors and has intrinsic sympathomimetic properties. Having stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, Acebutolol is used in ventricular arrhythmias. Other indications include hypertension, alone or in combinations with other agents. (NCI04)
acebutolol product	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors. The drug has stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, as well as weak inherent sympathomimetic action.
beta blockers adren	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
heart failure	inability of the heart to pump blood at an adequate rate to fill tissue metabolic requirements or the ability to do so only at an elevated filling pressure.
hypotension	Abnormally low BLOOD PRESSURE that can result in inadequate blood flow to the brain and other vital organs. Common symptom is DIZZINESS but greater negative impacts on the body occur when there is prolonged depravation of oxygen and nutrients.
myocardial infarction	NECROSIS of the MYOCARDIUM caused by an obstruction of the blood supply to the heart (CORONARY CIRCULATION).
acebutololum	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors. The drug has stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, as well as weak inherent sympathomimetic action.
cardiogenic shock	Shock resulting from diminution of cardiac output in heart disease.
cardiac arrest and ventricular fibrillation	A potentially lethal cardiac arrhythmia that is characterized by uncoordinated extremely rapid firing of electrical impulses (400-600/min) in HEART VENTRICLES. Such asynchronous ventricular quivering or fibrillation prevents any effective cardiac output and results in unconsciousness (SYNCOPE). It is one of the major electrocardiographic patterns seen with CARDIAC ARREST.
ventricular tachycardia	An abnormally rapid ventricular rhythm usually in excess of 150 beats per minute. It is generated within the ventricle below the BUNDLE OF HIS, either as autonomic impulse formation or reentrant impulse conduction. Depending on the etiology, onset of ventricular tachycardia can be paroxysmal (sudden) or nonparoxysmal, its wide QRS complexes can be uniform or polymorphic, and the ventricular beating may be independent of the atrial beating (AV dissociation).
bradyarrhythmia	Cardiac arrhythmias that are characterized by excessively slow HEART RATE, usually below 50 beats per minute in human adults. They can be classified broadly into SINOATRIAL NODE dysfunction and ATRIOVENTRICULAR BLOCK.
high blood pressure medicines	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
propanolamines	AMINO ALCOHOLS containing the propanolamine (NH2CH2CHOHCH2) group and its derivatives.
product containing acebutolol	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors. The drug has stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, as well as weak inherent sympathomimetic action.
acebutolol - chemical	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors. The drug has stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm, as well as weak inherent sympathomimetic action.
beta blockers cardioselective	Drugs that bind to and block the activation of ADRENERGIC BETA-1 RECEPTORS.
diacetyldapsone	Acetylated sulfone that is slowly metabolized to give long-term, low blood levels of DAPSONE. It has antimicrobial and antimalarial action, but is mainly used as a depot leprostatic agent.
antiinfective agents	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
acedapsone	Acetylated sulfone that is slowly metabolized to give long-term, low blood levels of DAPSONE. It has antimicrobial and antimalarial action, but is mainly used as a depot leprostatic agent.
anti-infective agent	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
antimalarial drug	Agents used in the treatment of malaria. They are usually classified on the basis of their action against plasmodia at different stages in their life cycle in the human. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1585)
anti infective agent	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
anti-infective drugs	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
dadds	Acetylated sulfone that is slowly metabolized to give long-term, low blood levels of DAPSONE. It has antimicrobial and antimalarial action, but is mainly used as a depot leprostatic agent.
anti malarials	Agents used in the treatment of malaria. They are usually classified on the basis of their action against plasmodia at different stages in their life cycle in the human. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1585)
anti infectives	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
sulfone	any compound of the type R-SO2-R.
antiinfective drugs	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
antileprosy agents	Substances that suppress Mycobacterium leprae, ameliorate the clinical manifestations of leprosy, and/or reduce the incidence and severity of leprous reactions.
acenaphthenes	Tricyclic ethylene-bridged naphthalene derivatives. They are found in petroleum residues and coal tar and used as dye intermediates, in the manufacture of plastics, and in insecticides and fungicides.
triciribine phosphate	The phosphate salt of the synthetic, cell-permeable tricyclic nucleoside triciribine with potential antineoplastic activity. Triciribine inhibits the phosphorylation, activation, and signalling of Akt-1, -2, and -3, which may result in the inhibition of Akt-expressing tumor cell proliferation. Akts are anti-apoptotic serine/theronine-specific protein kinases that phosphorylate and inactivate components of the apoptotic machinery, including Bcl-xL/Bcl-2-associated death promoter (BAD) and caspase 9. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1262" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1262" NCI Thesaurus)
acenocoumarol	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. Its actions and uses are similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p233)
thrombopoiesis inhibitor	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
anticoag	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
acénocoumarol	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. Its actions and uses are similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p233)
anticoagulant	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
nitrowarfarin	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. Its actions and uses are similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p233)
blood thinners	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
acenocoumarin	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. Its actions and uses are similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p233)
coumarin anticoagulant	oxygen containing heterocyclic compound, obtainable naturally from several plants, or produced synthetically from an amino acid of phenylalanine; it is used for the preparation of drugs especially anticoagulants such as bishydroxycoumarin (dicoumarol) and warfarin (coumadin); coumarin glycosides such as dicoumarol and warfarin, are widely used as rodenticides.
coumarin	oxygen containing heterocyclic compound, obtainable naturally from several plants, or produced synthetically from an amino acid of phenylalanine; it is used for the preparation of drugs especially anticoagulants such as bishydroxycoumarin (dicoumarol) and warfarin (coumadin); coumarin glycosides such as dicoumarol and warfarin, are widely used as rodenticides.
acenokumarin	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. Its actions and uses are similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p233)
nicoumalone	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. Its actions and uses are similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p233)
alpha benzopyrone	oxygen containing heterocyclic compound, obtainable naturally from several plants, or produced synthetically from an amino acid of phenylalanine; it is used for the preparation of drugs especially anticoagulants such as bishydroxycoumarin (dicoumarol) and warfarin (coumadin); coumarin glycosides such as dicoumarol and warfarin, are widely used as rodenticides.
acenocoumarolum	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. Its actions and uses are similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p233)
acetopromazine	A phenothiazine that is used in the treatment of PSYCHOSES.
neuroleptic	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
dopamine blockers	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
acetylpromazine	A phenothiazine that is used in the treatment of PSYCHOSES.
dopaminergic blocking agent	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
acepromazine	A phenothiazine that is used in the treatment of PSYCHOSES.
antipsychotics	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
antipsychotic	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
antag dopaminergic	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
antipsychotic agent	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
dopamine antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
acepromazine maleate	The maleate salt of acepromazine, a phenothiazine derivative with depressant effect on the central nervous system. Acepromazine acts as a dopamine receptor antagonist in the CNS, thereby causing sedation, muscular relaxation and a reduction in spontaneous activity. Its fast-acting neuroleptic effect with low toxicity is of particular value in veterinary medicine.
acetazine	A phenothiazine that is used in the treatment of PSYCHOSES.
major tranquilizer	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
neuroleptic agent	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
neuroleptics	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
antipsychotic agents	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
dopamine antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
major tranquilizers	Agents that control agitated psychotic behavior, alleviate acute psychotic states, reduce psychotic symptoms, and exert a quieting effect. They are used in SCHIZOPHRENIA; senile dementia; transient psychosis following surgery; or MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; etc. These drugs are often referred to as neuroleptics alluding to the tendency to produce neurological side effects, but not all antipsychotics are likely to produce such effects. Many of these drugs may also be effective against nausea, emesis, and pruritus.
bone structure of acetabulum	The part of the pelvis that comprises the pelvic socket where the head of FEMUR joins to form HIP JOINT (acetabulofemoral joint).
hip joint	The joint that is formed by the articulation of the head of FEMUR and the ACETABULUM of the PELVIS.
acetabulum	The part of the pelvis that comprises the pelvic socket where the head of FEMUR joins to form HIP JOINT (acetabulofemoral joint).
pelvic bone	Bone complex which has as its direct parts ilium, ischium and pubis.
acetabuloplasty	Surgical reconstruction of the ACETABULUM.
fracture of acetabulum	A traumatic break in the portion of the pelvic bone that forms the hip socket.
acetabulum fracture	A traumatic break in the portion of the pelvic bone that forms the hip socket.
protrusio acetabulae	Intrapelvic bulging of the medial acetabular wall. [HPO:probinson]
upington disease	Upington disease has characteristics of Perthes-like pelvic anomalies (premature closure of the capital femoral epiphyses and widened femoral necks with flattened femoral heads), enchondromata and ecchondromata. It has been described in siblings from three generations of one family. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
acetabulas	The part of the pelvis that comprises the pelvic socket where the head of FEMUR joins to form HIP JOINT (acetabulofemoral joint).
dislocation congen hip	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
acetabulum anatomy	The part of the pelvis that comprises the pelvic socket where the head of FEMUR joins to form HIP JOINT (acetabulofemoral joint).
protrusio acetabuli nos	Intrapelvic bulging of the medial acetabular wall. [HPO:probinson]
musculoskeletal system	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the musculoskeletal system, also including connective and soft tissue.
cotyloid cavities	The part of the pelvis that comprises the pelvic socket where the head of FEMUR joins to form HIP JOINT (acetabulofemoral joint).
tumor findings specimen type	The type of material sample taken from a biological entity for tumor findings assessment testing.
metastatic_site	The anatomical location where metastasis was detected.
cotyloid cavity	The part of the pelvis that comprises the pelvic socket where the head of FEMUR joins to form HIP JOINT (acetabulofemoral joint).
ewing sarcoma table terminology	Tables of data developed by PCDC to group the data in the EWS project.
biopsy/surgical procedures table	Terminology created by EVS and PCDC to support the EWS Biopsy/Surgical Procedures Table.
ewing tumor assessment transplant table	Terminology created by EVS and PCDC to support the EWS Tumor Assessment Table.
acetaldehyde	A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of acetic acid, perfumes, and flavors. It is also an intermediate in the metabolism of alcohol. It has a general narcotic action and also causes irritation of mucous membranes. Large doses may cause death from respiratory paralysis.
organic carcinogen	A substance that can increase human cancer risk and contains carbon and its derivatives. Many of these carcinogenic chemicals will frequently contain hydrogen with or without oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, and other elements. They exist in either carbon chain or carbon ring form. (NCI05)
organic chemical	A broad class of substances containing carbon and its derivatives. Many of these chemicals will frequently contain hydrogen with or without oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, and other elements. They exist in either carbon chain or carbon ring form.
pharmacologic agent	Any substance, other than food, that is used to prevent, diagnose, treat or relieve symptoms of a disease or abnormal condition. Also refers to a substance that alters mood or body function, or that can be habit-forming or addictive, especially a narcotic.
aldehyde	Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group in the form -CHO.
acetal	Diethers with the structure -C(OR'')(OR'''), where R'' and R''' are not hydrogen. Mixed acetals have R'' and R''' groups which differ.
ketal	condensation product of an alcohol plus a carbonyl group in anhydrous acid, having the general form R2-C-(OR)2; acetals have the form R-CH-(OR).
industrial additive	Natural or synthetic substances that are used in various industries or in laboratories for a broad range of applications. This group includes, but is not limited to, pharmaceutical excipients, research/diagnostic agents, agricultural agents, and other non-edible products that may have human health implication.
topiramate	A sulfamate-substituted monosaccharide with anticonvulsant property. Although the mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated, topiramate antagonizes kainate/AMPA subtype of the glutamate receptors, which are ligand-activated cation channels that mediate the fast component of excitatory postsynaptic currents in neurons of the central nervous system. This antagonistic action results in stabilizing hyper-excited neural membranes, inhibiting repetitive neuronal firing, and decreasing propagation of synaptic impulses, thereby impedes seizure occurrences. In addition, this agent augments gamma-aminobenzoic acid (GABA) activity and thereby attenuating GABAnergic inhibitory transmission.
aldehydes	Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group in the form -CHO.
aldehyde product	Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group in the form -CHO.
ether	A mobile, very volatile, highly flammable liquid used as an inhalation anesthetic and as a solvent for waxes, fats, oils, perfumes, alkaloids, and gums. It is mildly irritating to skin and mucous membranes.
acetamides	Derivatives of acetamide that are used as solvents, as mild irritants, and in organic synthesis.
acetamide	used as a solvent, plasticizer, and a wetting and penetrating agent; formula, C2H5NO.
zaleplon	A nonbenzodiazepine from the pyrazolopyrimidine class with hypnotic, sedative, anxiolytic, and muscle relaxant properties. Zaleplon interacts with the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) -A receptor, thereby affecting the chloride channel ionophore complex and potentiating the inhibitory effects of GABA. In addition, zaleplon binds selectively to the brain omega-1 receptor situated on the alpha subunit of the GABA-A/chloride ion channel receptor complex and potentiates t-butyl-bicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) binding.
linrodostat	An orally available inhibitor of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), with potential immunomodulating and antineoplastic activities. Upon administration, linrodostat specifically targets and binds to IDO1, a cytosolic enzyme responsible for the oxidation of the amino acid tryptophan into the immunosuppressive metabolite kynurenine. By inhibiting IDO1 and decreasing kynurenine in tumor cells, BMS-986205 restores and promotes the proliferation and activation of various immune cells, including dendritic cells (DCs), natural killer (NK) cells, and T-lymphocytes, and causes a reduction in tumor-associated regulatory T-cells (Tregs). Activation of the immune system, which is suppressed in many cancers, may induce a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) response against the IDO1-expressing tumor cells, thereby inhibiting the growth of IDO1-expressing tumor cells. IDO1, overexpressed by multiple tumor cell types, plays an important role in immunosuppression. Tryptophan depletion inhibits T-lymphocyte proliferation and activation, and subsequently suppresses the immune system.
belumosudil	An orally administered inhibitor of Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase 2 (ROCK2; ROCK-II), with potential immunomodulating activity. Upon administration, belumosudil binds to and inhibits the serine/threonine kinase activity of ROCK2. This inhibits ROCK2-mediated signal transduction pathways and modulates various pro- and anti-inflammatory immune cell responses. ROCK2 is upregulated in various diseases, including various fibrotic, neurodegenerative and autoimmune diseases.
paracetamol	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
antipyretics	agent that relieves or reduces fever.
acetaminophen	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
analgesic non narcotic	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
paracetamolum	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
nyquil	A commercial combination preparation, by Vicks, containing acetaminophen, dextromethorphan hydrobromide and doxylamine succinate used to relieve symptoms of cold and flu. Acetaminophen exerts analgesic and antipyretic actions by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. Dextromethorphan exerts antitussive activity by raising the threshold for coughing in the cough center. Doxylamine succinate, an antihistamine, blocks the effects of histamine, thereby treating symptoms such as sneezing, itchy, watery eyes, runny nose, itchy throat and causes drowsiness.
propacetamol	A water-soluble para-aminophenol derivative and ester prodrug of acetaminophen in which acetaminophen is bound to the carboxylic acid diethylglycine, with analgesic and antipyretic activities. Upon intravenous administration, propacetamol is hydrolyzed by plasma esterases into its active form acetaminophen. Although the exact mechanism of action has yet to be fully elucidated despite its widespread use, acetaminophen enters the central nervous system and acts centrally. This agent binds to cyclooxygenase (COX) and prevents the metabolism of arachidonic acid to prostaglandin. A reduction in prostaglandin formation relieves pain and reduces fever. Acetaminophen may also act centrally on cannabinoid receptors and on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors.
analgesics acetaminophen	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
hydrocodone and paracetamol product	A combination preparation of the analgesic acetaminophen and the semisynthetic opioid agonist hydrocodone with analgesic and antitussive activities. Acetaminophen exerts its analgesic activity by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis while hydrocodone exerts its analgesic activity by binding to the mu-receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), thereby mimicking the effects of endogenous opioids. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29100" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29100" NCI Thesaurus)
acetaminophen / aspirin / caffeine	A commercial combination preparation by Novartis containing acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine with analgesic activity. Acetaminophen exerts antipyretic and analgesic activities by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis while aspirin, a salicylate, inhibits cyclooxygenases (COX) with anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgesic properties. Caffeine is a central nervous system stimulant and causes constriction of dilated cerebral blood vessels. Excedrin is used for the relief and treatment of migraine and tension headaches.
acetaminophen + codeine	A synthetic p-aminophenol derivative combined with codeine, with anti-inflammatory and analgesic activites. Acetaminophen with codeine is used against inflammatory conditions, fever, and pain. Codeine is an opium alkaloid with analgesic properties. Acetaminophen appears to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis in the central nervous system and less in peripheral tissues.
hydrocodone acetaminophen	A combination preparation of the analgesic acetaminophen and the semisynthetic opioid agonist hydrocodone with analgesic and antitussive activities. Acetaminophen exerts its analgesic activity by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis while hydrocodone exerts its analgesic activity by binding to the mu-receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), thereby mimicking the effects of endogenous opioids. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29100" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29100" NCI Thesaurus)
oxycodone acetaminophen	A combination preparation of the analgesic and antipyretic acetaminophen and the semisynthetic opioid agonist oxycodone with analgesic and antitussive properties. Acetaminophen exerts its analgesic activity by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis, while oxycodone exerts its analgesic activity by binding to the mu-receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), thereby mimicking the effects of endogenous opioids. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29311" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29311" NCI Thesaurus)
analgesics	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
non narcotic analgesic	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
antipyretic and analgesic	Nonnarcotic agents that relieve pain and reduce fever.
phenol and derivatives	Benzene derivatives that include one or more hydroxyl groups attached to the ring structure.
nonnarcotic analgesics	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
phenols	Benzene derivatives that include one or more hydroxyl groups attached to the ring structure.
paracétamol	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
acetamin	A measurement of the acetaminophen in a biological specimen.
acetaminophen / hydrocodone	A combination preparation of the analgesic acetaminophen and the semisynthetic opioid agonist hydrocodone with analgesic and antitussive activities. Acetaminophen exerts its analgesic activity by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis while hydrocodone exerts its analgesic activity by binding to the mu-receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), thereby mimicking the effects of endogenous opioids. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29100" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29100" NCI Thesaurus)
acetaminophen / codeine	A synthetic p-aminophenol derivative combined with codeine, with anti-inflammatory and analgesic activites. Acetaminophen with codeine is used against inflammatory conditions, fever, and pain. Codeine is an opium alkaloid with analgesic properties. Acetaminophen appears to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis in the central nervous system and less in peripheral tissues.
amide	Organic compounds containing the -CO-NH2 radical. Amides are derived from acids by replacement of -OH by -NH2 or from ammonia by the replacement of H by an acyl group. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
phenol product	An antiseptic and disinfectant aromatic alcohol.
analgesic and antipyretic	Nonnarcotic agents that relieve pain and reduce fever.
assay of acetaminophen	A measurement of the acetaminophen in a biological specimen.
drug assay acetaminophen	A measurement of the acetaminophen in a biological specimen.
acetominophen	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
diphenhydramine and paracetamol product	A synthetic p-aminophenol derivative and diphenhydramine combination with anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and anti-allergic properties. Acetaminophen Diphenhydramine is used to treat symptoms of allergies and hay fever. The active principal metabolite of phenacetin, acetaminophen appears to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis in the central nervous system and less in peripheral tissues. Diphenhydramine blocks histamine effects, preventing sneezing and itchy, watery eyes, as well as nasal and other allergy and hay fever symptoms. (NCI04)
acetaminophen with codeine	A synthetic p-aminophenol derivative combined with codeine, with anti-inflammatory and analgesic activites. Acetaminophen with codeine is used against inflammatory conditions, fever, and pain. Codeine is an opium alkaloid with analgesic properties. Acetaminophen appears to inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis in the central nervous system and less in peripheral tissues.
paracetamol - chemical	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
phenol	An antiseptic and disinfectant aromatic alcohol.
nonopioid analgesics	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
lortab [brand name]	brand name of a painkiller drug
pyrexial	An abnormal elevation of body temperature, usually as a result of a pathologic process.
body temperature increased	An abnormal elevation of body temperature, usually as a result of a pathologic process.
acetaminophen product	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
fector hepaticus	Pathological processes of the LIVER.
renal elimination	The discharge of substances from the blood supply via the URINARY TRACT.
gpd defic	A disease-producing enzyme deficiency subject to many variants, some of which cause a deficiency of GLUCOSE-6-PHOSPHATE DEHYDROGENASE activity in erythrocytes, leading to hemolytic anemia.
antipyretic agents	agent that relieves or reduces fever.
aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase	Cytochrome P450 1A2 (515 aa, ~58 kDa) is encoded by the human CYP1A2 gene. This protein is involved in the hydroxylation of fatty acids, steroids and xenobiotics.
ctrp agent terminology	A subset of terminology about pharmacologic substances and formulations that are currently being used or tested in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer, cancer-related conditions and chemo/radiotherapy-related side effects.
acetate	salts or esters of acetic acid in which the terminal hydrogen atom is replaced by a metal, for instance copper acetate Cu(CH3COO)2, or where substitution is by a radical, for instance ethyl acetate CH3COOC2H5.
organic oxoacids	Organic acids that have oxygen atoms in the acidic groups. (NCI)
gdc terminology	Terminology that supports the Genomic Data Commons (GDC).
acetic acid glacial	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
aluminium acetate - chemical	A topical astringent that is used as an antiseptic agent. Aluminum acetate is used to treat inflammation, itching, and stinging of the infected skin and promotes healing.
ethanoat	salts or esters of acetic acid in which the terminal hydrogen atom is replaced by a metal, for instance copper acetate Cu(CH3COO)2, or where substitution is by a radical, for instance ethyl acetate CH3COOC2H5.
dexamethasone acetate	The acetate salt form of Dexamethasone, a synthetic adrenal corticosteroid with potent anti-inflammatory properties. In addition to binding to specific nuclear steroid receptors, dexamethasone also interferes with NF-kB activation and apoptotic pathways. This agent lacks the salt-retaining properties of other related adrenal hormones. (NCI04)
diflorasone diacetate	The acetate salt form of diflorasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Like other glucocorticoids, diflorasone enters the cell by diffusion across the cell membrane and binds to the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in the cytoplasm. The receptor complex subsequently translocates to the nucleus and activates or represses genes by interacting with short, palindromic DNA sequences called glucocorticoid response element (GRE). Gene activation leads to the exertion of anti-inflammatory effects, e.g. upregulation of IkappaB, while gene repression inhibits production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-2 and IL-6, thereby preventing activation of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes.
hydrocortisone acetate	The synthetic acetate ester form of hydrocortisone, a corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Hydrocortisone acetate initially binds to the cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptor; then the receptor-ligand complex is translocated to the nucleus where it initiates the transcription of genes encoding for anti-inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes.
potassium acetate	A potassium salt used to replenish ELECTROLYTES, for restoration of WATER-ELECTROLYTE BALANCE, as well as a urinary and systemic alkalizer, which can be administered orally or by intravenous infusion. Formerly, it was used in DIURETICS and EXPECTORANTS.
sodium acetate	The trihydrate sodium salt of acetic acid, which is used as a source of sodium ions in solutions for dialysis and as a systemic and urinary alkalizer, diuretic, and expectorant.
nafarelin acetate	The acetate salt form of nafarelin, a modified synthetic porcine luteinizing hormone (LH)-releasing hormone peptide analog, with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist activity. Upon nasal inhalation, nafarelin acetate binds to the GnRH receptor. This initially results in the release of the gonadotropins, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and LH, from the pituitary gland; however, prolonged stimulation of the GnRH receptor desensitizes the receptor, which leads to decreased secretion of FSH and LH. In females, the inhibition of gonadotropin secretion causes hypogonadotropic hypogonadism leading to decreased production of estrogen and progesterone and anovulation. In males, the inhibition of LH secretion prevents the production and release of testosterone from Leydig cells in the testes and causes a significant decline in testosterone production that is near the levels seen following castration.
leuprorelin acetate	A drug used to treat symptoms of advanced prostate cancer. It is also being studied in the treatment of other conditions and types of cancer. The active ingredient leuprolide blocks the body from making testosterone (a male hormone) and estradiol (a female hormone). It may stop the growth of prostate cancer cells that need testosterone to grow. Some brands of leuprolide are also used to treat early puberty in children and certain gynecologic conditions. Leuprolide acetate is a type of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog.
ethanoate	salts or esters of acetic acid in which the terminal hydrogen atom is replaced by a metal, for instance copper acetate Cu(CH3COO)2, or where substitution is by a radical, for instance ethyl acetate CH3COOC2H5.
histrelin acetate	The acetate salt form of histrelin, a long-acting, synthetic nonapeptide analog of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) with potential anti-tumor activity. Upon administration, histrelin binds to and activates GnRH receptors; prolonged administration results in pituitary GnRH receptor desensitization and inhibition of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion, leading to a significant decline in testosterone production in males and may inhibit androgen receptor-positive tumor progression; in females, prolonged administration results in decreased estradiol production.
acetate salt	salts or esters of acetic acid in which the terminal hydrogen atom is replaced by a metal, for instance copper acetate Cu(CH3COO)2, or where substitution is by a radical, for instance ethyl acetate CH3COOC2H5.
octreotide acetate	The acetate salt of a synthetic long-acting cyclic octapeptide with pharmacologic properties mimicking those of the natural hormone somatostatin. Octreotide is a more potent inhibitor of growth hormone, glucagon, and insulin than somatostatin. Similar to somatostatin, this agent also suppresses the luteinizing hormone response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone, decreases splanchnic blood flow, and inhibits the release of serotonin, gastrin, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), secretin, motilin, pancreatic polypeptide, and thyroid stimulating hormone.
acetate compound	salts or esters of acetic acid in which the terminal hydrogen atom is replaced by a metal, for instance copper acetate Cu(CH3COO)2, or where substitution is by a radical, for instance ethyl acetate CH3COOC2H5.
pirbuterol acetate	The acetate salt form of pirbuterol, a synthetic catecholamine and a pyridine derivative with sympathomimetic and bronchodilatory effects. Pirbuterol acetate selectively stimulates beta-2 adrenergic receptors, resulting in initiation of intracellular adenylate cyclase activity leading to increased levels of cAMP. As a result muscle relaxation (broncho- and vasodilation) occurs via cAMP-dependent signal transduction. In addition, elevated levels of cAMP inhibit release of inflammatory mediators from mast cells.
ganirelix acetate	The acetate salt form of ganirelix, a synthetic decapeptide with high antagonistic activity against naturally occurring gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Ganirelix directly competes with the GnRH for receptor binding in the anterior pituitary gland, thus induces a rapid and reversible suppression of the release of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). This agent is used for the inhibition of premature LH surges in women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, and in combination with other hormones for retrieval of the mature follicles for in-vitro fertilization.
fluoroacetate salt	Derivatives of acetic acid with one or more fluorines attached. They are almost odorless, difficult to detect chemically, and very stable. The acid itself, as well as the derivatives that are broken down in the body to the acid, are highly toxic substances, behaving as convulsant poisons with a delayed action. (From Miall's Dictionary of Chemistry, 5th ed)
mafenide acetate	The acetate salt form of mafenide, a synthetic sulfonamide analog of para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) with topical anti-infective activity. Mafenide acetate competes with PABA for the bacterial enzyme dihydropteroate synthase, thereby preventing the incorporation of PABA into dihydrofolic acid, thereby interferes with normal folic acid metabolism. As a result, de novo synthesis of pyrimidines, which requires folate metabolites, is impeded and subsequently DNA synthesis is affected. Mafenide acetate is bacteriostatic against many gram-negative and gram-positive organisms, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and certain strains of anaerobes.
thioglycolates	Organic esters of thioglycolic acid (HS-CH2COOH).
aluminum acetate	A topical astringent that is used as an antiseptic agent. Aluminum acetate is used to treat inflammation, itching, and stinging of the infected skin and promotes healing.
trenbolone acetate	Androgenní a anabolický steroid nandrolonové skupiny používaný hlavně ve veterinární praxi.
flecainide monoacetate	The acetate salt form of flecainide, a synthetic agent derived from trifluoroethoxy-benzamide exhibiting antiarrhythmic and local anesthetic activity. As a class Ic antiarrhythmic that blocks sodium channels, flecainide depresses polarization phase 0 and decreases the induction velocity of the His-Purkinje system. It also decreases phase 4 slope and increases the depolarization threshold.
goserelin acetate	The acetate salt of a synthetic decapeptide analog of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). Continuous, prolonged administration of goserelin in males results in inhibition of pituitary gonadotropin secretion, leading to a significant decline in testosterone production; in females, prolonged administration results in a decrease in estradiol production. (NCI04) Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1417" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1417" NCI Thesaurus)
thioglycolate	Organic esters of thioglycolic acid (HS-CH2COOH).
flecainide acetate	The acetate salt form of flecainide, a synthetic agent derived from trifluoroethoxy-benzamide exhibiting antiarrhythmic and local anesthetic activity. As a class Ic antiarrhythmic that blocks sodium channels, flecainide depresses polarization phase 0 and decreases the induction velocity of the His-Purkinje system. It also decreases phase 4 slope and increases the depolarization threshold.
glatiramer acetate	A random polymer of L-ALANINE, L-GLUTAMIC ACID, L-LYSINE, and L-TYROSINE that structurally resembles MYELIN BASIC PROTEIN. It is used in the treatment of RELAPSING-REMITTING MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS.
ethyl biscoumacetate	A coumarin that is used as an anticoagulant. It has actions similar to those of WARFARIN. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p226)
prednisolone acetate	The acetate salt form of prednisolone, a synthetic glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating properties. As a glucocorticoid receptor agonist, prednisolone acetate binds to specific intracellular glucocorticoid receptors, and causes the ligand-receptor complex to be translocated to the nucleus where it initiates the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes such as various cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes, both potent mediators of inflammation. This agent also decreases the number of circulating lymphocytes, induces cell differentiation, and stimulates apoptosis in sensitive tumor cell populations.
acetate flecainide	The acetate salt form of flecainide, a synthetic agent derived from trifluoroethoxy-benzamide exhibiting antiarrhythmic and local anesthetic activity. As a class Ic antiarrhythmic that blocks sodium channels, flecainide depresses polarization phase 0 and decreases the induction velocity of the His-Purkinje system. It also decreases phase 4 slope and increases the depolarization threshold.
sodium monofluoroacetate	An organic sodium salt and fluoroacetic acid derivative that is used as a rodenticide. It is characterized as a fine, white powdered solid that is odorless, and exposure occurs by inhalation, ingestion, or contact.
leuprolide acetate	A drug used to treat symptoms of advanced prostate cancer. It is also being studied in the treatment of other conditions and types of cancer. The active ingredient leuprolide blocks the body from making testosterone (a male hormone) and estradiol (a female hormone). It may stop the growth of prostate cancer cells that need testosterone to grow. Some brands of leuprolide are also used to treat early puberty in children and certain gynecologic conditions. Leuprolide acetate is a type of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog.
guanabenz acetate	The orally bioavailable, acetate salt form of guanabenz, a centrally-acting alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist, with anti-hypertensive and potential antineoplastic, cytoprotective and bone resorption inhibitory activities. Upon oral administration, guanabenz suppresses endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress by inhibiting the stress-induced dephosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha (eIF2a), thereby enhancing the phosphorylation level of eIF2a. This causes elF2a-mediated downregulation of the Rac1 pathway, upregulates the expression of activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4), which plays a key role in osteoblastogenesis, and downregulates the expression of nuclear factor of activated T-cells, cytoplasmic 1 (NFATc1), which is a transcription factor that plays a key role in osteoclastogenesis. This enhances osteoblastogenesis and suppresses osteoclastogenesis. Altogether, this promotes new bone formation and prevents bone degradation. In addition, guanabenz blocks the proliferation, survival, motility and invasiveness of tumor cells through the eIF2a-mediated downregulation of Rac1 signaling. Rac1, a Ras-related small GTPase belonging to the Rho family, plays a key role in tumor cell proliferation, survival and motility.
acetokinase	An enzyme that catalyzes reversibly the phosphorylation of acetate in the presence of a divalent cation and ATP with the formation of acetylphosphate and ADP. It is important in the glycolysis process. EC 2.7.2.1.
kinase	A rather large group of enzymes comprising not only those transferring phosphate but also diphosphate, nucleotidyl residues, and others. These have also been subdivided according to the acceptor group. (From Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.7.
acetate kinase	An enzyme that catalyzes reversibly the phosphorylation of acetate in the presence of a divalent cation and ATP with the formation of acetylphosphate and ADP. It is important in the glycolysis process. EC 2.7.2.1.
transferase	Transferases are enzymes transferring a group, for example, the methyl group or a glycosyl group, from one compound (generally regarded as donor) to another compound (generally regarded as acceptor). The classification is based on the scheme "donor:acceptor group transferase". (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.
transferases	Transferases are enzymes transferring a group, for example, the methyl group or a glycosyl group, from one compound (generally regarded as donor) to another compound (generally regarded as acceptor). The classification is based on the scheme "donor:acceptor group transferase". (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.
acetates	Derivatives of ACETIC ACID. Included under this heading are a broad variety of acid forms, salts, esters, and amides that contain the carboxymethane structure.
uridine triacetate	A substance that is being studied for its ability to protect against the gastrointestinal side effects caused by fluorouracil. It belongs to the family of drugs called cytoprotective agents.
nickelous acetate	A greenish, crystalline inorganic compound that produces toxic gases upon heating. Nickel acetate is used in textile dyeing processes, in electroplating, and as a catalyst intermediate. Exposure to this substance can cause severe dermatitis, skin and asthma-like allergies and causes damage to the lungs, kidneys, gastrointestinal tract and neurological system. Nickel acetate is a known carcinogen and is associated with an increased risk of developing lung and nasal cancers. (NCI05)
magnesium acetate	The acetate salt form of magnesium. Magnesium is a divalent cation essential for a number of biochemical processes involved in nerve signaling, bone mineralization and muscle contractions. About 350 enzymes involved in glycolysis and the Krebs cycle, formation of cyclic-AMP and ATP, cellular signal transduction and protein and nucleic acid synthesis are dependent on magnesium.
letermovir	An orally bioavailable, non-nucleoside, 3,4-dihydroquinazolinyl acetic acid and inhibitor of the pUL56 subunit of the viral terminase complex of cytomegalovirus (CMV), with potential CMV-specific antiviral activity. Upon oral administration, letermovir binds to the pUL56 subunit of the viral terminase complex of CMV and prevents the cleavage of concatemeric DNA into monomeric genome length DNA. As this agent interferes with viral DNA processing and subsequent viral DNA packaging into procapsids, CMV replication is blocked and CMV infection is prevented.
iodoacetates	Iodinated derivatives of acetic acid. Iodoacetates are commonly used as alkylating sulfhydryl reagents and enzyme inhibitors in biochemical research.
acetazolamida	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
anticonvulsant agents	Drugs used to prevent SEIZURES or reduce their severity.
acetazolamide	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
diuretic	Agents that promote the excretion of urine through their effects on kidney function.
acetazolamidum	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
anticonvulsive agent	Drugs used to prevent SEIZURES or reduce their severity.
product containing acetazolamide	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
anticonvulsants	Drugs used to prevent SEIZURES or reduce their severity.
anticonvulsant drugs	Drugs used to prevent SEIZURES or reduce their severity.
carbonate dehydratase inhibitor	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
acetazolamides	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
acetazolamide sodium	The sodium salt of acetazolamide, a nonbacteriostatic sulfonamide derivative with diuretic and anticonvulsant properties. Acetazolamide is a potent inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase that plays an important role in the control of fluid secretion. Inhibition of this enzyme in the kidney results in a reduction in the availability of hydrogen ions for active transport in the renal tubule lumen, thereby leading to increased bicarbonate and cation excretion, and increased urinary volume. Reduced bicarbonate level in circulation induces reduction of intraocular pressure via osmotic mechanism. The anticonvulsant activity of acetazolamide may contribute to inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the CNS, which decreases carbon dioxide tension in the pulmonary alveoli, thus increasing arterial oxygen tension.
drugs cardiovascular	Agents that affect the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction, blood vessel diameter, or blood volume.
sulphonamide	A group of compounds that contain the structure SO2NH2.
carbonate dehydratase inhib	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
acetazolamide [glaucoma]	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
water pills	Agents that promote the excretion of urine through their effects on kidney function.
carbonic anhydrase inhibitor	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
cai - carbonic anhydrase inhibitor	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
diuretics	Agents that promote the excretion of urine through their effects on kidney function.
effects of high altitude	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
glaucoma	An ocular disease, occurring in many forms, having as its primary characteristics an unstable or a sustained increase in the intraocular pressure which the eye cannot withstand without damage to its structure or impairment of its function. The consequences of the increased pressure may be manifested in a variety of symptoms, depending upon type and severity, such as excavation of the optic disk, hardness of the eyeball, corneal anesthesia, reduced visual acuity, seeing of colored halos around lights, disturbed dark adaptation, visual field defects, and headaches. (Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
angle closure glaucoma	A form of glaucoma in which the intraocular pressure increases because the angle of the anterior chamber is blocked and the aqueous humor cannot drain from the anterior chamber.
hypokalaemia	Abnormally low potassium concentration in the blood. It may result from potassium loss by renal secretion or by the gastrointestinal route, as by vomiting or diarrhea. It may be manifested clinically by neuromuscular disorders ranging from weakness to paralysis, by electrocardiographic abnormalities (depression of the T wave and elevation of the U wave), by renal disease, and by gastrointestinal disorders. (Dorland, 27th ed)
hyponatremia	Deficiency of sodium in the blood; salt depletion. (Dorland, 27th ed)
seizure	Clinical or subclinical disturbances of cortical function due to a sudden, abnormal, excessive, and disorganized discharge of brain cells. Clinical manifestations include abnormal motor, sensory and psychic phenomena. Recurrent seizures are usually referred to as EPILEPSY or "seizure disorder."
lung dis obstructive	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
carbonic anhydrase inhibitor product	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
sulfonamide	A group of compounds that contain the structure SO2NH2.
acetazolamide - chemical	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
acétazolamide	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
carbonic anhydrase inhib	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
acetazolamid	One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures. It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle. However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance. Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
anticonvulsant	Drugs used to prevent SEIZURES or reduce their severity.
anhydrase carbonic inhibitor	A class of compounds that reduces the secretion of H+ ions by the proximal kidney tubule through inhibition of CARBONIC ANHYDRASES.
acetic acid	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
bouin fluid	A general purpose reagent is a chemical reagent that has general laboratory application, that is used to collect, prepare, and examine specimens from the human body for diagnostic histopathology, cytology, and hematology, and that is not labeled or otherwise intended for a specific diagnostic application. General purpose reagents include cytological preservatives, decalcifying reagents, fixatives and adhesives, tissue processing reagents, isotonic solutions, and pH buffers.
glacial acetic acid	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
methacarn	A liquid preservative for cytological materials, consisting of methanol and glacial acetic acid in an approximately 3:1 ratio. It is typically used on tissues to be paraffin-embedded and immunochemically stained and is useful for the preservation of nucleic acids in situ.
ethanoic acid -retired-	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
indicators and reagents	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
aceticum acidum	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
glacial acetic acid-containing product	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
drugs infection	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
peracetic acid	A liquid that functions as a strong oxidizing agent. It has an acrid odor and is used as a disinfectant.
methanecarboxylic acid	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
dichloroacetic acid	A derivative of ACETIC ACID that contains two CHLORINE atoms attached to its methyl group.
carboxylic acids	Organic compounds containing the carboxy group (-COOH). This group of compounds includes amino acids and fatty acids. Carboxylic acids can be saturated, unsaturated, or aromatic.
product containing anti-infective	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
ethanoic acid	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
drugs	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
antiinfective agent	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
otic preparations acetic acid glacial	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
irrigating solutions	A sterile solution intended to bathe or flush open wounds or body cavities; they're used topically, never parenterally. (NCI)
antifungal drugs	Substances that destroy fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce. They differ from FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL because they defend against fungi present in human or animal tissues.
otitis externa	Inflammation of the OUTER EAR including the external EAR CANAL, cartilages of the auricle (EAR CARTILAGE), and the TYMPANIC MEMBRANE.
bacterial vaginosis	Polymicrobial, nonspecific vaginitis associated with positive cultures of Gardnerella vaginalis and other anaerobic organisms and a decrease in lactobacilli. It remains unclear whether the initial pathogenic event is caused by the growth of anaerobes or a primary decrease in lactobacilli.
acetic acid ear	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
perforation of tympanic membrane	A temporary or persistent opening in the eardrum (TYMPANIC MEMBRANE). Clinical signs depend on the size, location, and associated pathological condition.
otic preparations acetic acid	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
antibacterial agent [tc]	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
acetic acid - chemical	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
peroxyacetic acid	A liquid that functions as a strong oxidizing agent. It has an acrid odor and is used as a disinfectant.
carboxylic acid	Organic compounds containing the carboxy group (-COOH). This group of compounds includes amino acids and fatty acids. Carboxylic acids can be saturated, unsaturated, or aromatic.
ácido acético	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
antibacterial	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
anti-bacterial compounds	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
acetic acid-containing product	Product of the oxidation of ethanol and of the destructive distillation of wood. It is used locally, occasionally internally, as a counterirritant and also as a reagent. (Stedman, 26th ed)
termobacterium	A species of gram-negative bacteria of the family ACETOBACTERACEAE found in FLOWERS and FRUIT. Cells are ellipsoidal to rod-shaped and straight or slightly curved.
bacterium	One of the three domains of life (the others being Eukarya and ARCHAEA), also called Eubacteria. They are unicellular prokaryotic microorganisms which generally possess rigid cell walls, multiply by cell division, and exhibit three principal forms: round or coccal, rodlike or bacillary, and spiral or spirochetal. Bacteria can be classified by their response to OXYGEN: aerobic, anaerobic, or facultatively anaerobic; by the mode by which they obtain their energy: chemotrophy (via chemical reaction) or PHOTOTROPHY (via light reaction); for chemotrophs by their source of chemical energy: CHEMOLITHOTROPHY (from inorganic compounds) or chemoorganotrophy (from organic compounds); and by their source for CARBON; NITROGEN; etc.; HETEROTROPHY (from organic sources) or AUTOTROPHY (from CARBON DIOXIDE). They can also be classified by whether or not they stain (based on the structure of their CELL WALLS) with CRYSTAL VIOLET dye: gram-negative or gram-positive.
acetohexamide	A sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agent that is metabolized in the liver to 1-hydrohexamide.
hypoglycaemic drug	Substances which lower blood glucose levels.
hypoglycemic medicines	Substances which lower blood glucose levels.
hypoglycemic	Substances which lower blood glucose levels.
sulphonylurea and its derivatives	A class of compounds in which a sulfone functional group is attached to UREA.
gestation	The status during which female mammals carry their developing young (EMBRYOS or FETUSES) in utero before birth, beginning from FERTILIZATION to BIRTH.
hypoglycemic agents	Substances which lower blood glucose levels.
acetoin dehydrogenase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of acetoin to diacetyl in the presence of NAD.
oxidoreductase	The class of all enzymes catalyzing oxidoreduction reactions. The substrate that is oxidized is regarded as a hydrogen donor. The systematic name is based on donor:acceptor oxidoreductase. The recommended name will be dehydrogenase, wherever this is possible; as an alternative, reductase can be used. Oxidase is only used in cases where O2 is the acceptor. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992, p9)
diacetyl reductase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of acetoin to diacetyl in the presence of NAD.
reductase	The class of all enzymes catalyzing oxidoreduction reactions. The substrate that is oxidized is regarded as a hydrogen donor. The systematic name is based on donor:acceptor oxidoreductase. The recommended name will be dehydrogenase, wherever this is possible; as an alternative, reductase can be used. Oxidase is only used in cases where O2 is the acceptor. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992, p9)
acetolactate synthetase	A flavoprotein enzyme that catalyzes the formation of acetolactate from 2 moles of PYRUVATE in the biosynthesis of VALINE and the formation of acetohydroxybutyrate from pyruvate and alpha-ketobutyrate in the biosynthesis of ISOLEUCINE. This enzyme was formerly listed as EC 4.1.3.18.
lyase	A class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of C-C, C-O, and C-N, and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 4.
acetone	A colorless liquid used as a solvent and an antiseptic. It is one of the ketone bodies produced during ketoacidosis.
solvents	Liquids that dissolve other substances (solutes), generally solids, without any change in chemical composition, as, water containing sugar. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
product containing acetone	A colorless liquid used as a solvent and an antiseptic. It is one of the ketone bodies produced during ketoacidosis.
ketones	Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group =C=O bonded to two hydrocarbon groups.
methyl ketone	A colorless liquid used as a solvent and an antiseptic. It is one of the ketone bodies produced during ketoacidosis.
ketone-containing product	Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group =C=O bonded to two hydrocarbon groups.
ketone	Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group =C=O bonded to two hydrocarbon groups.
organic solvent	A group of organic liquid compounds that are used for extracting, dissolving, or suspending other water insoluble compounds. (NCI)
acetone measurement	A measurement of the acetone in a biological specimen.
acetone test	A measurement of the acetone in a biological specimen.
dimethyl formaldehyde	A colorless liquid used as a solvent and an antiseptic. It is one of the ketone bodies produced during ketoacidosis.
methyl cyanides	Compounds in which a methyl group is attached to the cyano moiety.
itacitinib	An orally bioavailable inhibitor of Janus-associated kinase 1 (JAK1) with potential antineoplastic and immunomodulating activities. Upon oral administration, itacitinib selectively inhibits JAK-1, thereby inhibiting the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins and the production of proinflammatory factors induced by other cytokines, including interleukin-23 (IL-23) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). The JAK-STAT pathway plays a key role in the signaling of many cytokines and growth factors and is involved in cellular proliferation, growth, hematopoiesis, and the immune response; JAK kinases may be upregulated in inflammatory diseases, myeloproliferative disorders, and various malignancies.
acetrizoic acid	An iodinated radiographic contrast medium used as acetrizoate sodium in HYSTEROSALPINGOGRAPHY.
contrast media	Substances used to allow enhanced visualization of tissues.
urokonic acid	An iodinated radiographic contrast medium used as acetrizoate sodium in HYSTEROSALPINGOGRAPHY.
contrast agents	Substances used to allow enhanced visualization of tissues.
contrast agent	Substances used to allow enhanced visualization of tissues.
acide acetrizoique	An iodinated radiographic contrast medium used as acetrizoate sodium in HYSTEROSALPINGOGRAPHY.
contrast	Substances used to allow enhanced visualization of tissues.
acetyl-coenzyme a acetyltransferase	An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of ACETYL COA. Some enzymes called thiolase or thiolase-I have referred to this activity or to the activity of ACETYL-COA C-ACYLTRANSFERASE.
deficiency of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coa lyase	A rare genetic inherited disorder characterized by inability of the body to process the amino acid leucine. Signs and symptoms include vomiting, dehydration, lethargy, convulsions, and coma.
acetyl coenzyme a acyltransferase	Enzyme that catalyzes the final step of fatty acid oxidation in which ACETYL COA is released and the CoA ester of a fatty acid two carbons shorter is formed.
mat deficiency	A rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the ACAT1 gene. It is characterized by the reduction or elimination of the enzyme mitochondrial acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase which is responsible for the metabolism of the amino acid isoleucine and ketone-body metabolism. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include vomiting, dehydration, breathing difficulties, seizures, lethargy, and coma.
acetyl-coa carboxylase	A carboxylating enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of ATP, acetyl-CoA, and HCO3- to ADP, orthophosphate, and malonyl-CoA. It is a biotinyl-protein that also catalyzes transcarboxylation. The plant enzyme also carboxylates propanoyl-CoA and butanoyl-CoA (From Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 6.4.1.2.
ligase	A class of enzymes that catalyze the formation of a bond between two substrate molecules, coupled with the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond in ATP or a similar energy donor. (Dorland, 28th ed) EC 6.
acetyl coenzyme a carboxylase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: ATP + acetyl-CoA + HCO3- = ADP + phosphate + malonyl-CoA. [EC:6.4.1.2]
acetyl coenzyme a	Acetyl CoA participates in the biosynthesis of fatty acids and sterols, in the oxidation of fatty acids and in the metabolism of many amino acids. It also acts as a biological acetylating agent.
enzyme cofactor	Small molecules that are required for the catalytic function of ENZYMES. Many VITAMINS are coenzymes.
protein	Linear POLYPEPTIDES that are synthesized on RIBOSOMES and may be further modified, crosslinked, cleaved, or assembled into complex proteins with several subunits. The specific sequence of AMINO ACIDS determines the shape the polypeptide will take, during PROTEIN FOLDING, and the function of the protein.
acetyl coa	Acetyl CoA participates in the biosynthesis of fatty acids and sterols, in the oxidation of fatty acids and in the metabolism of many amino acids. It also acts as a biological acetylating agent.
coenzyme analog	Small molecules that are required for the catalytic function of ENZYMES. Many VITAMINS are coenzymes.
proteins	Linear POLYPEPTIDES that are synthesized on RIBOSOMES and may be further modified, crosslinked, cleaved, or assembled into complex proteins with several subunits. The specific sequence of AMINO ACIDS determines the shape the polypeptide will take, during PROTEIN FOLDING, and the function of the protein.
acetyl-coa synthetase	An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of CoA derivatives from ATP, acetate, and CoA to form AMP, pyrophosphate, and acetyl CoA. It acts also on propionates and acrylates. EC 6.2.1.1.
synthetase	A class of enzymes that catalyze the formation of a bond between two substrate molecules, coupled with the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond in ATP or a similar energy donor. (Dorland, 28th ed) EC 6.
acetyl coenzyme a synthetase	An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of CoA derivatives from ATP, acetate, and CoA to form AMP, pyrophosphate, and acetyl CoA. It acts also on propionates and acrylates. EC 6.2.1.1.
synthetases	A class of enzymes that catalyze the formation of a bond between two substrate molecules, coupled with the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond in ATP or a similar energy donor. (Dorland, 28th ed) EC 6.
acetate coa ligase	An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of CoA derivatives from ATP, acetate, and CoA to form AMP, pyrophosphate, and acetyl CoA. It acts also on propionates and acrylates. EC 6.2.1.1.
obsolete acetate to acetyl-coa	Catalysis of the reaction: ATP + acetate + CoA = AMP + diphosphate + acetyl-CoA. [EC:6.2.1.1]
acetylation	Formation of an acetyl derivative. (Stedman, 25th ed)
protein acetylation	The addition of an acetyl group to a protein amino acid. An acetyl group is CH3CO-, derived from acetic [ethanoic] acid. [GOC:ai]
biochemical reaction	In living cells, chemical reactions that help sustain life and allow cells to grow.
chat gene	This gene is involved in neurotransmitter biosynthesis.
biochemical process	A linked series of non-equivalent biochemical interactions and enzymatic reactions, and/or a linked series of biochemical processes.
chat wt allele	Human CHAT wild-type allele is located in the vicinity of 10q11.2 and is approximately 85 kb in length. This allele, which encodes choline O-acetyltransferase protein, plays a role in the synthesis of acetylcholine. Mutation of the gene is associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome with episodic apnea (familial infantile myasthenia gravis 2).
cbdd terminology	The Chemical Biology and Drug Development (CBDD) Terminology is a set of terms used in design, development, and description of drug substances, mainly but not exclusively pertaining to the chemistry (including chemical reactions) of small molecules and polymers. The terminology is intended to support the chemoinformatics community's effort to develop conceptual models for describing modern drug design such as performed by the NCI Computer-Aided Drug Design (CADD) Group (part of the NCI Chemical Biology Laboratory) and collaborators at NIH, academia, and other government agencies.
cbdd process terminology	A set of terms used to support the chemoinformatics community's effort to design, develop, and describe drug substances, mainly but not exclusively pertaining to the processes (including chemical and biochemical reactions) that either represent the activity or are involved in the construction of small molecules and polymers.
acetyl l carnitine	An acetic acid ester of CARNITINE that facilitates movement of ACETYL COA into the matrices of mammalian MITOCHONDRIA during the oxidation of FATTY ACIDS.
b vitamins	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
acetylcarnitine	An acetic acid ester of CARNITINE that facilitates movement of ACETYL COA into the matrices of mammalian MITOCHONDRIA during the oxidation of FATTY ACIDS.
vitamin b	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
acetyl carnitine	An acetic acid ester of CARNITINE that facilitates movement of ACETYL COA into the matrices of mammalian MITOCHONDRIA during the oxidation of FATTY ACIDS.
dietary supplements	Products in capsule, tablet or liquid form that provide dietary ingredients, and that are intended to be taken by mouth to increase the intake of nutrients. Dietary supplements can include macronutrients, such as proteins, carbohydrates, and fats; and/or MICRONUTRIENTS, such as VITAMINS; MINERALS; and PHYTOCHEMICALS.
analogs & derivatives	Užij u léků a chemických látek se stejným molekulárním základem nebo podobnou elektronovou strukturou, ale lišících se adicí nebo substitucí jiných atomů nebo molekul. Užij tam, kde neexistuje specifický chemický deskriptor a žádný vhodný nadřazený (skupinový) deskriptor.
levocarnitine acetyl	An acetic acid ester of CARNITINE that facilitates movement of ACETYL COA into the matrices of mammalian MITOCHONDRIA during the oxidation of FATTY ACIDS.
cns drug	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
deficiency diseases	A condition produced by dietary or metabolic deficiency. The term includes all diseases caused by an insufficient supply of essential nutrients, i.e., protein (or amino acids), vitamins, and minerals. It also includes an inadequacy of calories. (From Dorland, 27th ed; Stedman, 25th ed)
allergies medications	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
nootropic	Drugs used to specifically facilitate learning or memory, particularly to prevent the cognitive deficits associated with dementias. These drugs act by a variety of mechanisms.
vitamin b product	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
vitamin b- complex	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
antidementia agent	Drugs used to specifically facilitate learning or memory, particularly to prevent the cognitive deficits associated with dementias. These drugs act by a variety of mechanisms.
acetylcholine	A neurotransmitter found at neuromuscular junctions, autonomic ganglia, parasympathetic effector junctions, a subset of sympathetic effector junctions, and at many sites in the central nervous system.
cholinergic drug	Any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems. Included here are agonists and antagonists, drugs that affect the life cycle of ACETYLCHOLINE, and drugs that affect the survival of cholinergic neurons. The term cholinergic agents is sometimes still used in the narrower sense of MUSCARINIC AGONISTS, although most modern texts discourage that usage.
cholinergic agonist	Drugs that bind to and activate cholinergic receptors.
cholinergic ag	Drugs that bind to and activate cholinergic receptors.
biogenic amine	A group of naturally occurring amines derived by enzymatic decarboxylation of the natural amino acids. Many have powerful physiological effects (e.g., histamine, serotonin, epinephrine, tyramine). Those derived from aromatic amino acids, and also their synthetic analogs (e.g., amphetamine), are of use in pharmacology.
acetylcholine product	A neurotransmitter found at neuromuscular junctions, autonomic ganglia, parasympathetic effector junctions, a subset of sympathetic effector junctions, and at many sites in the central nervous system.
cholinergic agonists	Drugs that bind to and activate cholinergic receptors.
acetylcholine agonists	Drugs that bind to and activate cholinergic receptors.
product containing acetylcholine chloride	The chloride salt form of acetylcholine, a synthetic, quaternary amino alcohol with cholinergic properties. Acetylcholine chloride mimics the parasympathomimetic effect of the endogenous compound acetylcholine. Administered as an ophthalmic solution, this drug stimulates the cholinoceptors in the sphincter muscle of the iris, causing the pupil to constrict. (NCI05)
vasodilators	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
vasodilator agents	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
miotics	Agents causing contraction of the pupil of the eye. Some sources use the term miotics only for the parasympathomimetics but any drug used to induce miosis is included here.
acetylcholine chloride	The chloride salt form of acetylcholine, a synthetic, quaternary amino alcohol with cholinergic properties. Acetylcholine chloride mimics the parasympathomimetic effect of the endogenous compound acetylcholine. Administered as an ophthalmic solution, this drug stimulates the cholinoceptors in the sphincter muscle of the iris, causing the pupil to constrict. (NCI05)
vasodilating agent	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
acetylcholine measurement	The determination of the amount of acetylcholine hormone present in a sample.
miotic	Agents causing contraction of the pupil of the eye. Some sources use the term miotics only for the parasympathomimetics but any drug used to induce miosis is included here.
headache	The symptom of PAIN in the cranial region. It may be an isolated benign occurrence or manifestation of a wide variety of HEADACHE DISORDERS.
iritis	Inflammation of the iris characterized by circumcorneal injection, aqueous flare, keratotic precipitates, and constricted and sluggish pupil along with discoloration of the iris.
vicarious trauma	Emotional distress caused by repeated or prolonged expression of compassion or empathy. It may occur in individuals working in care giving professions.
product containing acetylcholine	A neurotransmitter found at neuromuscular junctions, autonomic ganglia, parasympathetic effector junctions, a subset of sympathetic effector junctions, and at many sites in the central nervous system.
vasodilator drug	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
vasodilator drugs	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
vasodilator	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
acchole inhibitor	Any substance that inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AchE), an enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine (Ach) in the synaptic cleft. Inhibition of acetylcholinesterase results in an increase in the level and duration of action of acetylcholine.
galanthamine	Ett bensazepin från växten Galanthus. Det är en kolinesterashämmare som används för att motverka muskeleffekterna av gallamintrietiodid och tubokurarin och som provats till behandling av Alzheimers sjukdom och andra CNS-sjukdomar.
acetylcholine hydrolase inhibitor	Any substance that inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AchE), an enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine (Ach) in the synaptic cleft. Inhibition of acetylcholinesterase results in an increase in the level and duration of action of acetylcholine.
proserine	A cholinesterase inhibitor used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis and to reverse the effects of muscle relaxants such as gallamine and tubocurarine. Neostigmine, unlike PHYSOSTIGMINE, does not cross the blood-brain barrier.
ethiofencarb	The carbamate agent ethiofencarb.
isofenphos	The organophosphorus agent isofenphos.
tacrine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of tacrine, an aminoacridine derivative with cognitive stimulating property. Although the mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated, tacrine hydrochloride may bind reversibly to cholinesterase, acetylcholinesterase as well as butyrylcholinesterase, thereby decreasing the breakdown of acetylcholine, and prolonging synaptic actions as well as increased release of acetylcholine. In addition, this agent inhibits monoamine oxidase (MAO) and may inhibit the reuptake of catecholamines and serotonin. Finally, a novel mechanism of action studied in animal models suggests tacrine to attenuate the production of interleukin-1beta in the hippocampus and blood, thereby producing central and peripheral anti-inflammatory effects that may play a role in Alzheimer's disease.
metolcarb	The carbamate agent metolcarb.
anticholinesterase agent	Drugs that inhibit cholinesterases. The neurotransmitter ACETYLCHOLINE is rapidly hydrolyzed, and thereby inactivated, by cholinesterases. When cholinesterases are inhibited, the action of endogenously released acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses is potentiated. Cholinesterase inhibitors are widely used clinically for their potentiation of cholinergic inputs to the gastrointestinal tract and urinary bladder, the eye, and skeletal muscles; they are also used for their effects on the heart and the central nervous system.
product containing isoflurophate	A di-isopropyl-fluorophosphate which is an irreversible cholinesterase inhibitor used to investigate the NERVOUS SYSTEM.
acetylcysteine	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
antivirals	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
l cysteine n acetyl	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
expectorants	Agents that increase mucous excretion. Mucolytic agents, that is drugs that liquefy mucous secretions, are also included here.
phenylmercapturic acid	A modified form of acetylcysteine that is a metabolite of benzene and may be found in the urine of smokers.
antiviral preparations	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
n acetylcysteine	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
expectorant	Agents that increase mucous excretion. Mucolytic agents, that is drugs that liquefy mucous secretions, are also included here.
acetyl cysteine	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
free radical scavenger	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
n acetyl l cysteine	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
product containing acetylcysteine	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
acetylcysteine - chemical	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
antiviral agents	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
n-acetyl cysteine	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
antiviral agent	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
respiratory system drug	Drugs used for their effects on the respiratory system.
acetyl cysteine l n	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
acetilcisteina	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
bronchiectasis	Persistent abnormal dilatation of the bronchi.
intoxication caused by drug	An adverse effect of a drug used therapeutically or diagnostically.
lung disease	Pathological processes involving any part of the LUNG.
pneumonia	Infection of the lung often accompanied by inflammation.
antiviral	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
free radical scavengers	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
acetylcysteine [respiratory use]	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
expectorant agent	Agents that increase mucous excretion. Mucolytic agents, that is drugs that liquefy mucous secretions, are also included here.
acetylcysteine [eyes]	The N-acetyl derivative of CYSTEINE. It is used as a mucolytic agent to reduce the viscosity of mucous secretions. It has also been shown to have antiviral effects in patients with HIV due to inhibition of viral stimulation by reactive oxygen intermediates.
antiviral [apc]	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
antiviral drugs	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
free radicals scavenger	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
desglucolanatosides a	Cardioactive derivatives of lanatoside A or of DIGITOXIN. They are used for fast digitalization in congestive heart failure.
cardiotonic agent	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
anti arrhythmics	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
antiarrhythmia	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
cardiotonic drug	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
myocardial stimulants	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
anti arrhythmia agents	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
desglucolanatosides c	Alpha- or beta-acetyl derivatives of DIGOXIN or lanatoside C from Digitalis lanata. They are better absorbed and longer acting than digoxin and are used in congestive heart failure.
acetyldigoxin	Alpha- or beta-acetyl derivatives of DIGOXIN or lanatoside C from Digitalis lanata. They are better absorbed and longer acting than digoxin and are used in congestive heart failure.
enzyme inhibitor	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
antiarrhythmic drug	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
acetyldigoxins	Alpha- or beta-acetyl derivatives of DIGOXIN or lanatoside C from Digitalis lanata. They are better absorbed and longer acting than digoxin and are used in congestive heart failure.
cardiotonic	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
anti arrhythmia drugs	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
cardiotonics	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
digitalis glycosides	Glycosides from plants of the genus DIGITALIS. Some of these are useful as cardiotonic and anti-arrhythmia agents. Included also are semi-synthetic derivatives of the naturally occurring glycosides. The term has sometimes been used more broadly to include all CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES, but here is restricted to those related to Digitalis.
antiarrhythmic agent	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
cardiac stimulants	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
anti arrhythmic	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
cardiotonic drugs	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
cardiotonic agents	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
anti-arrhythmia agent	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
antiarrhythmic	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
cardioprotective agent	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
acetylene	The simplest two carbon alkyne with the formula HCCH.
alkyne	Hydrocarbons with at least one triple bond in the linear portion, of the general formula Cn-H2n-2.
acetylenes	Hydrocarbons with at least one triple bond in the linear portion, of the general formula Cn-H2n-2.
acetylesterase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of acetate esters and water to alcohols and acetate. EC 3.1.1.6.
n-acetyl glucosamine	The N-acetyl derivative of glucosamine.
simple sugars	Single chain carbohydrates that are the most basic units of CARBOHYDRATES. They are typically colorless crystalline substances with a sweet taste and have the same general formula CnH2nOn.
acetylmuramyl alanyl isoglutamine	Peptidoglycan immunoadjuvant originally isolated from bacterial cell wall fragments; also acts as pyrogen and may cause arthritis; stimulates both humoral and cellular immunity.
nor-mdp	A synthetic muramyl dipeptide (MDP) analogue with potential immunostimulating and antineoplastic activity. As a derivative of the mycobacterial cell wall component MDP, almurtide activates both monocytes and macrophages. This results in the secretion of cytokines and induces the recruitment and activation of other immune cells, which may result in indirect tumoricidal or cytostatic effects.
muramyl dipeptide	Peptidoglycan immunoadjuvant originally isolated from bacterial cell wall fragments; also acts as pyrogen and may cause arthritis; stimulates both humoral and cellular immunity.
disaccharide tripeptide glycerol dipalmitoyl	A lipophilic disaccharide tripeptide derivative of muramyl dipeptide (MDP) with immunomodulatory activity. Disaccharide tripeptide glycerol dipalmitoyl (DTP-GDP)stimulates macrophage activity and increases serum levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), neopterin, interleukin (IL)-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-12, which may activate host immune system antitumor functions. DTP-GDP may be packaged in liposomes for improved delivery. The immunomodulatory effects of this agent may be superior to those of MDP. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1575" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1575" NCI Thesaurus)
immune enhancement agent	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
immunological adjuvant	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
immunostimulant	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
acecainide	A major metabolite of PROCAINAMIDE. Its anti-arrhythmic action may cause cardiac toxicity in kidney failure.
antiarrhythmic agents	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
antiarrhythmia drugs	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
acetylserotonin o methyltransferase	An enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosylmethionine to N-acetylserotonin to form N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine (MELATONIN).
transacetylase	Enzymes catalyzing the transfer of an acetyl group, usually from acetyl coenzyme A, to another compound. EC 2.3.1.
lipoate acetyltransferase	Enzima que catalisa a reação da acetiltransferase utilizando a acetil CoA como um doador de acetil e a di-hidrolipoamida como um aceptor para produzir a COENZIMA A (CoA) e a S-acetildi-hidrolipoamida. Forma a subunidade (E2) do COMPLEXO PIRUVATO DESIDROGENASE.
accomplishment	Success in bringing an effort to the desired end; the degree or level of success attained in some specified area (esp. scholastic) or in general.
successful	favorable outcome of an activity.
success	favorable outcome of an activity.
calcaneal tendon	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
skeletal ligament	Ligament organ that primarily consists of regular dense connective tissue aggregated into fasciculi; connects bone and cartilage organs. Examples: sutural ligament, ligament of pinna, tarsal ligament.
structure of achilles tendon	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
triceps surae	A pair of muscles in the posterior compartment of the lower leg comprising the soleus and the gastrocnemius muscles, the main function of which is plantar flexion of the foot. The soleus arises from the posterior tibia, whilst the gastrocnemius arises from the distal femur; both muscles insert into the calcaneus via the calcaneal tendon (Achilles).
achilles tendon	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
tarsus	The region of the lower limb between the FOOT and the LEG.
ankle	The region of the lower limb between the FOOT and the LEG.
tendo calcaneus	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
triceps surae muscle	A pair of muscles in the posterior compartment of the lower leg comprising the soleus and the gastrocnemius muscles, the main function of which is plantar flexion of the foot. The soleus arises from the posterior tibia, whilst the gastrocnemius arises from the distal femur; both muscles insert into the calcaneus via the calcaneal tendon (Achilles).
calcaneal tendons	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
achilles tendinitis	Inflammation of the Achilles tendon. []
achilles	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
common calcanean tendon	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
contracture of tendo achilles	A contracture of the Achilles tendon. [HPO:probinson]
[so]achilles tendon	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
achilles tendon; tendinitis	Inflammation of the Achilles tendon. []
calcanean tendon	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
achilles contracture tendon	A contracture of the Achilles tendon. [HPO:probinson]
achilles tendons	Tendon that connects the muscles in the back of the calf to the HEEL BONE.
tendon	Fibrous bands or cords of CONNECTIVE TISSUE at the ends of SKELETAL MUSCLE FIBERS that serve to attach the MUSCLES to bones and other structures.
structure of musculoskeletal system	The MUSCLES, bones (BONE AND BONES), and CARTILAGE of the body.
specimen	A terminology set that includes concepts relevant to CDISC SEND biospecimens.
achlorhydria	A lack of HYDROCHLORIC ACID in GASTRIC JUICE despite stimulation of gastric secretion.
gastrin pentapeptide	A synthetic pentapeptide that has effects like gastrin when given parenterally. It stimulates the secretion of gastric acid, pepsin, and intrinsic factor, and has been used as a diagnostic aid.
achylia gastrica	A lack of HYDROCHLORIC ACID in GASTRIC JUICE despite stimulation of gastric secretion.
gastritis atrophic	GASTRITIS with atrophy of the GASTRIC MUCOSA, the GASTRIC PARIETAL CELLS, and the mucosal glands leading to ACHLORHYDRIA. Atrophic gastritis usually progresses from chronic gastritis.
mucolipidosis type iv	An autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutations in the MCOLN1 gene. It is characterized by psychomotor developmental delays and ophthalmologic abnormalities.
stomach structure	An area of the stomach, not otherwise specified.
non-neoplastic stomach disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that affects the stomach. Representative examples include gastritis and ulcer.
gastric achlorhydria	A lack of HYDROCHLORIC ACID in GASTRIC JUICE despite stimulation of gastric secretion.
genus acholeplasma	A genus of gram-negative organisms including saprophytic and parasitic or pathogenic species.
acholeplasma laidlawii	An organism originally isolated from sewage, manure, humus, and soil, but recently found as a parasite in mammals and birds.
acholeplasma species	A genus of gram-negative organisms including saprophytic and parasitic or pathogenic species.
order mycoplasmatales	order of highly pleomorphic, gram negative bacteria including both pathogenic and saprophytic species.
sapromyces laidlawi ab	An organism originally isolated from sewage, manure, humus, and soil, but recently found as a parasite in mammals and birds.
acholeplasma	A genus of gram-negative organisms including saprophytic and parasitic or pathogenic species.
sapromycetaceae	Gram-negative organisms including apparently free-living saphrophytes as well as mammalian and avian parasites, and possibly pathogens.
achondrogenesis	A rare group of disorders characterized by defective development of bones and cartilage.
rare non-neoplastic disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that is rare.
unspecified anomaly of cartilage	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
achondroplastic dwarf	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
nanosoma	A genetic or pathological condition that is characterized by short stature and undersize. Abnormal skeletal growth usually results in an adult who is significantly below the average height.
bone structure	hard form of connective tissue that constitutes the majority of the skeleton of most vertebrates; it consists of an organic component (the cells and matrix) and an inorganic, or mineral component; the matrix contains a framework of collagenous fibers and is impregnated with the mineral component, chiefly calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate, which imparts the quality of rigidity to bone.
bones	hard form of connective tissue that constitutes the majority of the skeleton of most vertebrates; it consists of an organic component (the cells and matrix) and an inorganic, or mineral component; the matrix contains a framework of collagenous fibers and is impregnated with the mineral component, chiefly calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate, which imparts the quality of rigidity to bone.
dysplasia	Cells that look abnormal under a microscope but are not cancer.
achondroplasia	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
jeune thoracic dysplasia	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by a narrow thorax, micromelia, and respiratory disturbances which may lead to asphyxiation. It may be associated with bilateral microcystic renal disease which may lead to renal failure.
dwarfism	A genetic or pathological condition that is characterized by short stature and undersize. Abnormal skeletal growth usually results in an adult who is significantly below the average height.
congenital skeletal dysplasia	A general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues. [HPO:probinson]
skeleton	bones and cartilages of the body, including the joints.
skeletal system	bones and cartilages of the body, including the joints.
height / growth measure	The height of a person while standing.
achondroplastic dwarfism	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
abnormal development of cartilage	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
achondroplastic; dwarfism	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
chondrogenesis imperfecta	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL2A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(II) chain. It is the most severe of a spectrum of disorders caused by mutations in the COL2A1 gene, characterized by short limbs, small chest and lungs, and abnormal ossification of the spine and pelvis. Often, infants die at birth or shortly thereafter.
chondrodystrophia fetalis	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
slsd with scid	An extremely rare type of severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome (SCID) characterised by the classical signs of T-B- SCID (severe and recurrent infections, diarrhoea, failure to thrive, absence of T and B lymphocytes) associated with skeletal anomalies like short stature, bowing of the long bones and metaphyseal abnormalities of variable degree of severity.
conductive hearing loss	Hearing loss due to interference with the mechanical reception or amplification of sound to the COCHLEA. The interference is in the outer or middle ear involving the EAR CANAL; TYMPANIC MEMBRANE; or EAR OSSICLES.
achondroplasias	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
brachydactylism	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
trident hand	A hand in which the fingers are of nearly equal length and deflected at the first interphalangeal joint, so as to give a forklike shape consisting of separation of the first and second as well as the third and fourth digits. [HPO:probinson]
chondrodysplasia; fetalis	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
autosomal dominant	Autosomal dominant inheritance refers to genetic conditions that occur when a mutation is present in one copy of a given gene (i.e., the person is heterozygous).
short femoral necks	An abnormally short femoral neck (which is the process of bone, connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft). [HPO:probinson]
hypermobility of all joints	Joint hypermobility (ability of a joint to move beyond its normal range of motion) affecting many or all joints of the body. [HPO:curators]
retruded bridge of nose	Posterior positioning of the nasal root in relation to the overall facial profile for age. [PMID:19152422]
flared metaphyses	The presence of a splayed (i.e.,flared) metaphyseal segment of one or more long bones. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12853662]
short-limbed dwarfism identifiable at birth	A type of short-limbed dwarfism that is manifest beginning in the neonatal period. [HPO:probinson]
dwarfism; achondroplastic	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
midface deficiency	Posterior positions and/or vertical shortening of the infraorbital and perialar regions, or increased concavity of the face and/or reduced nasolabial angle. [DDD:jclayton-smith, PMID:19125436]
motor developmental milestones not achieved	Failure to meet, or late achievement of motor development milestones.
rhizomelia	Disproportionate shortening of the proximal segment of limbs (i.e. the femur and humerus). [HPO:probinson]
disease of connective tissues	A heterogeneous group of disorders, some hereditary, others acquired, characterized by abnormal structure or function of one or more of the elements of connective tissue, i.e., collagen, elastin, or the mucopolysaccharides.
dwarf	A genetic or pathological condition that is characterized by short stature and undersize. Abnormal skeletal growth usually results in an adult who is significantly below the average height.
physique	Overall body structure and appearance, including size, musculature, and posture. Limited primarily to human populations. Consider also BODY SIZE or SOMATOTYPES.
severe short stature	A genetic or pathological condition that is characterized by short stature and undersize. Abnormal skeletal growth usually results in an adult who is significantly below the average height.
physiques	Overall body structure and appearance, including size, musculature, and posture. Limited primarily to human populations. Consider also BODY SIZE or SOMATOTYPES.
cartilage development disorder nos	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
chondrodystrophy nos	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
short stature disorder	A genetic or pathological condition that is characterized by short stature and undersize. Abnormal skeletal growth usually results in an adult who is significantly below the average height.
constitutional dwarfism	A genetic or pathological condition that is characterized by short stature and undersize. Abnormal skeletal growth usually results in an adult who is significantly below the average height.
epiphyses	Subdivision of long bone which forms its expanded proximal or distal articular end; together with other the subdivisions of long bone, it constitutes the long bone. Examples: proximal epiphysis of humerus, distal epiphysis of femur.
epiphysis	Subdivision of long bone which forms its expanded proximal or distal articular end; together with other the subdivisions of long bone, it constitutes the long bone. Examples: proximal epiphysis of humerus, distal epiphysis of femur.
end of long bone	Subdivision of long bone which forms its expanded proximal or distal articular end; together with other the subdivisions of long bone, it constitutes the long bone. Examples: proximal epiphysis of humerus, distal epiphysis of femur.
congenital osteosclerosis	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
stature	The height of a person while standing.
congenital musculoskeletal abnorm	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
osteosclerosis congenita	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
congenital musculoskeletal abnormality nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
bone epiphysis	Subdivision of long bone which forms its expanded proximal or distal articular end; together with other the subdivisions of long bone, it constitutes the long bone. Examples: proximal epiphysis of humerus, distal epiphysis of femur.
bones structures	hard form of connective tissue that constitutes the majority of the skeleton of most vertebrates; it consists of an organic component (the cells and matrix) and an inorganic, or mineral component; the matrix contains a framework of collagenous fibers and is impregnated with the mineral component, chiefly calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate, which imparts the quality of rigidity to bone.
achondroplastic physique	An autosomal dominant disorder that is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism. Affected individuals exhibit short stature caused by rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, characteristic facies with frontal bossing and mid-face hypoplasia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, limitation of elbow extension, GENU VARUM, and trident hand. (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim, MIM#100800, April 20, 2001)
vital signs - height	The height of a person while standing.
non-neoplastic bone disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that affects the bone or articular cartilage.
connective and soft tissue	The supporting connective tissue of an organ.
pediatric endocrinology terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events in the pediatric population that are related to endocrine disorders.
osteosclerosis	An abnormal hardening or increased density of bone tissue.
achromobacter	Rod gramnegativních, přísně aerobních, nesporulujících, tyčkovitých bakterií. Přírodním stanovištěm jsou půda a voda. Někdy jsou izolovány z nemocničního prostředí a lidí.
alcaligenes piechaudii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Achromobacter piechaudii.
hydrogenomonas ruhlandii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Achromobacter ruhlandii.
genus achromobacter	Rod gramnegativních, přísně aerobních, nesporulujících, tyčkovitých bakterií. Přírodním stanovištěm jsou půda a voda. Někdy jsou izolovány z nemocničního prostředí a lidí.
achromobacter species	Rod gramnegativních, přísně aerobních, nesporulujících, tyčkovitých bakterií. Přírodním stanovištěm jsou půda a voda. Někdy jsou izolovány z nemocničního prostředí a lidí.
alcaligenes denitrificans subsp. xylosoxydans	Achromobacter xylosoxidans - gramnegativní pohyblivá aerobní bakterie způsobující např. meningitidy či sepse. Často je rezistentní na aminoglykosidy, cefalosporiny 1. až 3. generace a na fluorchinolony. (uprav. podle Velký lékařský slovník online, 2020 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
alcaligenes xylosoxidans subsp. denitrificans	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Achromobacter denitrificans.
alcaligenaceae	Čeleď gramnegativních, aerobních nesporulujících tyčinek nebo koků z řádu BURKHOLDERIALES, do které patří i známé rody ACHROMOBACTER, ALCALIGENES a BORDETELLA.
gram-negative aerobic bacillus	Any rod shaped bacteria with an oxygen based metabolism and has a cell wall that contains low levels of peptidoglycan and stains pink with the Gram staining technique.
acid phosphatase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. EC 3.1.3.2.
prostatic-specific acid phosphatase	an enzyme produced in prostate
acid phosphomonoester hydrolase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. EC 3.1.3.2.
protein family	Collection of proteins that are evolutionarily related. This is reflected in the structural and functional similarities as well as in the extent of sequence conservation or residue identity. (from SCOP)
phosphatase family gene	Phosphotransferase Genes encode Phosphotransferases (Phosphatases), a large group of enzymes subdivided according to acceptor group that transfer phosphate, diphosphate, nucleotidyl residues, and other phosphomoieties. Some phosphotransferases catalyze the conversion of a proenzyme to an active enzyme; others transfer phosphate groups to form triphosphates (e.g., ATP). (NCI)
acid nucleoside diphosphate phosphatase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. EC 3.1.3.2.
clinical trials reporting program terminology	Terminology that is used to support NCI's Clinical Trials Reporting Program (CTRP), a database that captures the required reporting data for all NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
acid phosphomonoesterase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. EC 3.1.3.2.
ctrp molecular genetic biomarker terminology	A set of terms that is comprised of any biomarkers related to genes (i.e. genes, alleles, proteins, molecular abnormalities, or any related findings or assays) referenced in NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
hydrolase	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the substrate and the addition of water to the resulting molecules, e.g., ESTERASES, glycosidases (GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES), lipases, NUCLEOTIDASES, peptidases (PEPTIDE HYDROLASES), and phosphatases (PHOSPHORIC MONOESTER HYDROLASES). EC 3.
acid monophosphatase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. EC 3.1.3.2.
acid phos	A measurement of the acid phosphatase in a biological specimen.
phosphatase	A group of hydrolases which catalyze the hydrolysis of monophosphoric esters with the production of one mole of orthophosphate.
acid phosphatase stain	<p>Stain, Acid phosphatase</p>
acid base balance	The balance between acids and bases in the BODY FLUIDS. The pH (HYDROGEN-ION CONCENTRATION) of the arterial BLOOD provides an index for the total body acid-base balance.
metabolism	The chemical reactions in living organisms by which energy is provided for vital processes and activities and new material is assimilated.
acid-base equilibrium	The balance between acids and bases in the BODY FLUIDS. The pH (HYDROGEN-ION CONCENTRATION) of the arterial BLOOD provides an index for the total body acid-base balance.
acid/base balance	The balance between acids and bases in the BODY FLUIDS. The pH (HYDROGEN-ION CONCENTRATION) of the arterial BLOOD provides an index for the total body acid-base balance.
acid-base monitoring	Collection and analysis of patient data to regulate acid-base balance
autoregulation	The processes whereby the internal environment of an organism tends to remain balanced and stable.
acid base equilibrium	The balance between acids and bases in the BODY FLUIDS. The pH (HYDROGEN-ION CONCENTRATION) of the arterial BLOOD provides an index for the total body acid-base balance.
defenses host	Host Defenses against pathology include physical barriers to pathogens, immediate nonspecific and constitutive (innate) defenses, specific inducible immune responses, metabolic and physiologic homeostatic mechanisms, detoxification, repair processes, and healing mechanisms.
resistance process	A Resistance Process consists of activities of biologic molecules or complexes involved in processes that maintain immunity to, or counteract, defeat, or withstand the effects of, an antagonistic agent.
acid-base balance	The balance between acids and bases in the BODY FLUIDS. The pH (HYDROGEN-ION CONCENTRATION) of the arterial BLOOD provides an index for the total body acid-base balance.
cellular stress	Cellular or subcellular processes involved with significant disturbance from a homeostatic condition. (NCI)
acid-base imbalance	Disturbances in the ACID-BASE EQUILIBRIUM of the body.
alanina	A non-essential amino acid that occurs in high levels in its free state in plasma. It is produced from pyruvate by transamination. It is involved in sugar and acid metabolism, increases IMMUNITY, and provides energy for muscle tissue, BRAIN, and the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
altered acid/base balance	Disturbances in the ACID-BASE EQUILIBRIUM of the body.
acidosis nos	A pathologic condition of acid accumulation or depletion of base in the body. The two main types are RESPIRATORY ACIDOSIS and metabolic acidosis, due to metabolic acid build up.
abnormality of acid-base homeostasis	Disturbances in the ACID-BASE EQUILIBRIUM of the body.
alkalosis	A pathological condition that removes acid or adds base to the body fluids.
alkalaemia	An abnormally high blood pH (usually defined as 7.41 or above). [PMID:24381489]
acidaemia nos	An abnormally low blood pH (usually defined as less than 7.35). [PMID:24381489]
base excess abnormal	Deviation from the normal quantity of base excess, defined as the amount of strong acid (in millimoles per liter) that needs to be added in vitro to 1 liter of fully oxygenated whole blood to return a blood sample to standard conditions (pH of 7.40, Pco2 of 40 mm Hg, and temperature of 37 degrees C). [PMID:30067929]
abnormal serum bicarbonate concentration	Any deviation from the normal concentration of bicarbonate, HCO3[-], in the circulation. []
elevated lactate:pyruvate ratio	An abnormal increase in the molar ratio of lactate to pyruvate in the blood circulation. [PMID:28088395]
acid base imbalance	Disturbances in the ACID-BASE EQUILIBRIUM of the body.
abnormal homeostasis	An anomaly in the processes involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium. [HPO:probinson]
acidosis	A pathologic condition of acid accumulation or depletion of base in the body. The two main types are RESPIRATORY ACIDOSIS and metabolic acidosis, due to metabolic acid build up.
metabolic acidosis	A condition in which the blood is too acidic. It may be caused by severe illness or sepsis (bacteria in the bloodstream).
ketoacidosis	Acidosis resulting from accumulation of ketone bodies. [HPO:probinson]
acidaemia	An abnormally low blood pH (usually defined as less than 7.35). [PMID:24381489]
acidoses	A pathologic condition of acid accumulation or depletion of base in the body. The two main types are RESPIRATORY ACIDOSIS and metabolic acidosis, due to metabolic acid build up.
lactic acidosis	Acidosis caused by accumulation of lactic acid more rapidly than it can be metabolized. It may occur spontaneously or in association with diseases such as DIABETES MELLITUS; LEUKEMIA; or LIVER FAILURE.
respiratory acidosis	Respiratory retention of carbon dioxide. It may be chronic or acute.
hyperchloremic acidosis	Acidosis (pH less than 7.35) that develops with an increase in ionic chloride. [PMID:29493965]
acidemia	An abnormally low blood pH (usually defined as less than 7.35). [PMID:24381489]
acute respiratory acidosis	Sudden onset of impairment in ventilation such that the removal of carbon dioxide by the respiratory system is less than the production of carbon dioxide in the tissues, leading to an elevation of the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) above the normal limits (more than 45 mm Hg) with an accompanying acidemia (pH less than 7.35). [HPO:probinson]
chronic respiratory acidosis	Longstanding impairment in ventilation such that the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) is elevated above the upper limit of the reference range (more than 45 mm Hg), with a normal or near-normal pH secondary to renal compensation and an elevated serum bicarbonate levels (more than30 mEq/L). [HPO:probinson]
arginine	An essential amino acid that is physiologically active in the L-form.
diclofenamidum	A carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is used in the treatment of glaucoma.
tromethamine	An organic amine proton acceptor. It is used in the synthesis of surface-active agents and pharmaceuticals; as an emulsifying agent for cosmetic creams and lotions, mineral oil and paraffin wax emulsions, as a biological buffer, and used as an alkalizer. (From Merck, 11th ed; Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1424)
fomepizole	A pyrazole with competitive alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor activity. Fomepizole prevents the metabolism of ethylene glycol and methanol by alcohol dehydrogenase, thereby inhibiting the formation of their toxic metabolites, glycolate and oxalate (from ethylene glycol), and formic acid (from methanol). Fomepizole is indicated for use as an antidote in ethylene glycol and methanol poisoning. (NCI05)
sodium lactate	The sodium salt of racemic or inactive lactic acid. It is a hygroscopic agent used intravenously as a systemic and urinary alkalizer.
arginine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of arginine, an essential amino acid in juvenile humans. Arginine is a complex amino acid, often found at active sites in proteins and enzymes due to its amine-containing side chain. Arginine may prevent or treat heart and circulatory diseases, combat fatigue, and stimulate the immune system. It also boosts production of nitric oxide, relaxing blood vessels, and treating angina and other cardiovascular problems. Arginine is also an important intermediate in the urea cycle and in detoxification of nitrogenous wastes. (NCI04)
sodium acetate anhydrous	The anhydrous, sodium salt form of acetic acid. Sodium acetate anhydrous disassociates in water to form sodium ions (Na+) and acetate ions. Sodium is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in fluid and electrolyte replacement therapies. Sodium acetate anhydrous is used as an electrolyte replenisher in isosmotic solution for parenteral replacement of acute losses of extracellular fluid without disturbing normal electrolyte balance.
acidemia nos	An abnormally low blood pH (usually defined as less than 7.35). [PMID:24381489]
chronic acidosis	Longstanding abnormal acid accumulation or depletion of base. [ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432]
hypercapnic acidosis	Respiratory retention of carbon dioxide. It may be chronic or acute.
metabolic; acidosis	A condition in which the blood is too acidic. It may be caused by severe illness or sepsis (bacteria in the bloodstream).
lactacidosis	Acidosis caused by accumulation of lactic acid more rapidly than it can be metabolized. It may occur spontaneously or in association with diseases such as DIABETES MELLITUS; LEUKEMIA; or LIVER FAILURE.
body system	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
increased serum lactate	Abnormally increased level of blood lactate (2-hydroxypropanoic acid). Lactate is produced from pyruvate by lactate dehydrogenase during normal metabolism. The terms lactate and lactic acid are often used interchangeably but lactate (the component measured in blood) is strictly a weak base whereas lactic acid is the corresponding acid. Lactic acidosis is often used clinically to describe elevated lactate but should be reserved for cases where there is a corresponding acidosis (pH below 7.35). [HPO:probinson, PMID:24079682]
fetal acidosis	An umbilical arterial blood pH less than 7.00.
hmg-coa lyase deficiency	A rare genetic inherited disorder characterized by inability of the body to process the amino acid leucine. Signs and symptoms include vomiting, dehydration, lethargy, convulsions, and coma.
acidemias	An abnormally low blood pH (usually defined as less than 7.35). [PMID:24381489]
organ system	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
acidosis lactic	Acidosis caused by accumulation of lactic acid more rapidly than it can be metabolized. It may occur spontaneously or in association with diseases such as DIABETES MELLITUS; LEUKEMIA; or LIVER FAILURE.
subacute necrotizing encephalopathy	A group of metabolic disorders primarily of infancy characterized by the subacute onset of psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, ataxia, weakness, vision loss, eye movement abnormalities, seizures, dysphagia, and lactic acidosis. Pathological features include spongy degeneration of the neuropile of the basal ganglia, thalamus, brain stem, and spinal cord. Patterns of inheritance include X-linked recessive, autosomal recessive, and mitochondrial. Leigh disease has been associated with mutations in genes for the PYRUVATE DEHYDROGENASE COMPLEX; CYTOCHROME-C OXIDASE; ATP synthase subunit 6; and subunits of mitochondrial complex I. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p850).
neonatal research network terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the efforts of the Neonatal Research Network.
fructosemia	An autosomal recessive fructose metabolism disorder due to deficient fructose-1-phosphate aldolase (EC 2.1.2.13) activity, resulting in accumulation of fructose-1-phosphate. The accumulated fructose-1-phosphate inhibits glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis, causing severe hypoglycemia following ingestion of fructose. Prolonged fructose ingestion in infants leads ultimately to hepatic failure and death. Patients develop a strong distaste for sweet food, and avoid a chronic course of the disease by remaining on a fructose- and sucrose-free diet.
kearn-sayre mitochondrial cytopathy	Progresivní vrozená mitochondriální encefalomyopatie, způsobená mutací mitochondriální DNA. Onemocnění se manifestuje nejpozději před 20. rokem života progresivní ophthalmoplegia externa a pigmentovou retinopatií. V klinickém obraze se projeví endokrinologická porucha (např. porucha růstu, diabetes mellitus, hypoparatyreóza), srdeční poruchy (blokády, kardiomegalie, selhání), poruchy sluchu, některé mozečkové syndromy a demence. Prognóza je nepříznivá. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2013 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
pyruvate carboxylase deficiency	An autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by absent or decreased PYRUVATE CARBOXYLASE activity, the enzyme that regulates gluconeogenesis, lipogenesis, and neurotransmitter synthesis. Clinical manifestations include lactic acidosis, seizures, respiratory distress, marked psychomotor delay, periodic HYPOGLYCEMIA, and hypotonia. The clinical course may be similar to LEIGH DISEASE. (From Am J Hum Genet 1998 Jun;62(6):1312-9)
pearson syndrome	The most severe syndrome in the spectrum of single, large-scale mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions (SLSMDs), usually presenting shortly after birth with sideroblastic anemia. The condition is often associated with exocrine pancreas insufficiency and multi-system dysfunction including diabetes mellitus, cortisol deficiency, hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, and growth hormone deficiency. Commonly associated clinical findings include the following: failure to thrive, hypotonia, ptosis, ophthalmoparesis, and renal disease.
lethal infantile mitochondrial myopathy	A rare mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disorder characterized by progressive generalized hypotonia, progressive external ophthalmoplegia and severe lactic acidosis, which result in early fatality (days to months after birth). Patients may present with lethargy and areflexia and may associate additional features, such as cardiomyopathy, renal dysfunction, liver involvement and seizures.
sengers syndrome	A mitochondrial disease with characteristics of cataracts, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, muscle weakness and lactic acidosis after exercise. May present in two forms, a neonatal lethal form or a chronic form. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is diagnosed at birth in half of the patients in both forms. Approximately half of the patients die within the first year of life due to cardiac failure. Nystagmus, strabismus, hypotonia, hyporeflexia and delayed motor development are occasional features. Those who survive the neonatal period and infancy manifest the chronic form with stable cardiomyopathy and myopathy and have a normal intellect. Physical mobility is impaired due to muscular weakness in most patients. In the majority of cases, mutations (nonsense, frame-shift, start codon or splice site) in the AGK gene have been identified. The reported mutations are transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
glycogen storage disease type ia	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the G6PC gene, encoding glucose-6-phosphatase. It is characterized by accumulation of glycogen in the kidneys and liver resulting in hypoglycemia, hyperlipidemia, and hyperuricemia. Adults may have a high incidence of hepatic adenomas.
severe lactic acidosis	A severe form of lactic acidemia. [HPO:probinson]
intermittent lactic acidemia	An intermittent (discontinuous) form of lactic acidemia. [HPO:probinson]
exercise-induced lactic acidosis	A form of lactic acidemia that occurs following exercise or exertion. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15308499]
melas syndrome	A mitochondrial disorder characterized by focal or generalized seizures, episodes of transient or persistent neurologic dysfunction resembling strokes, and ragged-red fibers on muscle biopsy. Affected individuals tend to be normal at birth through early childhood, then experience growth failure, episodic vomiting, and recurrent cerebral insults resulting in visual loss and hemiparesis. The cortical lesions tend to occur in the parietal and occipital lobes and are not associated with vascular occlusion. VASCULAR HEADACHE is frequently associated and the disorder tends to be familial. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch56, p117)
deficiency of dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase	A rare red cell disorder classified principally into two clinical phenotypes: autosomal recessive congenital (or hereditary) types I and II (RCM/RHM type 1; RCM/RHM type 2). In RCM type 1, cyanosis from birth is the only symptom. RCM type 2 is much more severe; the cyanosis is accompanied by neurological dysfunction (with intellectual deficit, microcephaly, growth retardation, opisthotonus, strabismus and hypertonia), which usually becomes evident during the first four months of life. RCM type 1 is caused by mutations of the CYB5R3 gene (22q13.31-qter) encoding the NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase (Cb5R) and Cb5R deficiency is limited to the erythrocytes. RCM type 2 is caused by global loss of Cb5R function. RCM type 1 is generally associated with missense mutations, whereas RCM type 2 is more commonly associated with truncating mutations, splicing errors or mutations that lead to disruption of the active site.
system organ	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
pc deficiency	An autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by absent or decreased PYRUVATE CARBOXYLASE activity, the enzyme that regulates gluconeogenesis, lipogenesis, and neurotransmitter synthesis. Clinical manifestations include lactic acidosis, seizures, respiratory distress, marked psychomotor delay, periodic HYPOGLYCEMIA, and hypotonia. The clinical course may be similar to LEIGH DISEASE. (From Am J Hum Genet 1998 Jun;62(6):1312-9)
pdh deficiency	An inherited metabolic disorder caused by deficient enzyme activity in the PYRUVATE DEHYDROGENASE COMPLEX, resulting in deficiency of acetyl CoA and reduced synthesis of acetylcholine. Two clinical forms are recognized: neonatal and juvenile. The neonatal form is a relatively common cause of lactic acidosis in the first weeks of life and may also feature an erythematous rash. The juvenile form presents with lactic acidosis, alopecia, intermittent ATAXIA; SEIZURES; and an erythematous rash. (From J Inherit Metab Dis 1996;19(4):452-62) Autosomal recessive and X-linked forms are caused by mutations in the genes for the three different enzyme components of this multisubunit pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. One of the mutations at Xp22.2-p22.1 in the gene for the E1 alpha component of the complex leads to LEIGH DISEASE.
renal tubular acidosis	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
type ii renal tubular acidosis	The genetic defect is in the sodium bicarbonate cotransporter gene SLC4A4 resulting in impaired reabsorption of bicarbonate ions in the proximal renal tubules and bicarbonate-wasting.
sodium bicarbonate	A white, crystalline powder that is commonly used as a pH buffering agent, an electrolyte replenisher, systemic alkalizer and in topical cleansing solutions.
renal tubule acidosis	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
citric acid monohydrate	A tricarboxylic acid found in citrus fruits. Citric acid is used as an excipient in pharmaceutical preparations due to its antioxidant properties. It maintains stability of active ingredients and is used as a preservative. It is also used as an acidulant to control pH and acts as an anticoagulant by chelating calcium in blood.
type i renal tubular acidosis	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
renal tubular acidosis nos	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
carnitine palmitoyltransferase i deficiency	A rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the CPT1A gene. It is characterized by the presence of defective carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A which is involved in fatty acid oxidation. Signs and symptoms may be exacerbated during fasting and include hypoketotic hypoglycemia, increased levels of carnitine in the blood, hepatomegaly, seizures, and coma.
tubular renal acidosis	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
congenital malformation syndromes vici	A very rare and severe congenital multisystem disorder with the principal features of agenesis of the corpus callosum, cataracts, oculocutaneous hypopigmentation, cardiomyopathy and combined immunodeficiency. Usually diagnosed in the first years of life. The phenotype is variable but the principal diagnostic features are almost always present at onset or evolve over time. Caused by mutations in the EPG5 gene (18q12.3) which encodes an important autophagy regulator, ectopic P-granules autophagy protein 5 (epg5). Formation of autolysosomes is specifically disturbed by an epg5 deficiency.
tubular acidosis; renal	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
hypokalemic distal renal tubular acidosis	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
acidosis renal tubules	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
classic distal renal tubular acidosis	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
proximal renal tubular acidosis	The genetic defect is in the sodium bicarbonate cotransporter gene SLC4A4 resulting in impaired reabsorption of bicarbonate ions in the proximal renal tubules and bicarbonate-wasting.
luder-sheldon syndrome	Probably related to a recessive gene, this is Fanconi Syndrome, characterized by adult onset.
distal rta	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
renal tubular acidosis i	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
kidney	Body organ that filters blood for the secretion of URINE and that regulates ion concentrations.
albright's renal tubular acidosis	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
rta - renal tubular acidosis	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
proximal type rtas	The genetic defect is in the sodium bicarbonate cotransporter gene SLC4A4 resulting in impaired reabsorption of bicarbonate ions in the proximal renal tubules and bicarbonate-wasting.
hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis	selective aldosterone deficiency resulting from low renin production.
distal renal tubular acidosis	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
renal acidosis tubular	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
nephros	Body organ that filters blood for the secretion of URINE and that regulates ion concentrations.
renal tubular acidosis ii	The genetic defect is in the sodium bicarbonate cotransporter gene SLC4A4 resulting in impaired reabsorption of bicarbonate ions in the proximal renal tubules and bicarbonate-wasting.
bicarbonate reabsorption defect	The genetic defect is in the sodium bicarbonate cotransporter gene SLC4A4 resulting in impaired reabsorption of bicarbonate ions in the proximal renal tubules and bicarbonate-wasting.
type i rta	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
gradient type rtas	The genetic defect is in the anion exchange protein gene SLC4A1 resulting in impaired excretion of hydrogen ions or renal acids in the distal renal tubules.
acidosis renal tubular	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
acidosis tubular renal	A group of genetic disorders of the KIDNEY TUBULES characterized by the accumulation of metabolically produced acids with elevated plasma chloride, hyperchloremic metabolic ACIDOSIS. Defective renal acidification of URINE (proximal tubules) or low renal acid excretion (distal tubules) can lead to complications such as HYPOKALEMIA, hypercalcinuria with NEPHROLITHIASIS and NEPHROCALCINOSIS, and RICKETS.
pediatric nephrology terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events in the pediatric population with issues pertaining to nephrology.
carbon dioxide	A colorless, odorless gas that can be formed by the body and is necessary for the respiration cycle of plants and animals.
carbonic acid gas	A colorless, odorless gas that can be formed by the body and is necessary for the respiration cycle of plants and animals.
respiratory acidoses	Respiratory retention of carbon dioxide. It may be chronic or acute.
acidosis respiratory	Respiratory retention of carbon dioxide. It may be chronic or acute.
disease of respiratory system	Diseases of the respiratory system in general or unspecified or for a specific respiratory disease not available.
respiratory system	The tubular and cavernous organs and structures, by means of which pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange between ambient air and the blood are brought about.
disorder of respiratory system	Diseases of the respiratory system in general or unspecified or for a specific respiratory disease not available.
pulmonary organ system	The tubular and cavernous organs and structures, by means of which pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange between ambient air and the blood are brought about.
acid-base management: respiratory acidosis	Promotion of acid-base balance and prevention of complications resulting from serum PaCO2 levels higher than desired or serum hydrogen ion levels higher than desired
alveolar hypoventilation	A reduction in the amount of air entering the pulmonary alveoli.
acids	Chemical compounds which yield hydrogen ions or protons when dissolved in water, whose hydrogen can be replaced by metals or basic radicals, or which react with bases to form salts and water (neutralization). An extension of the term includes substances dissolved in media other than water. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
hydrogen fluoride	Hydrofluoric acid. A solution of hydrogen fluoride in water. It is a colorless fuming liquid which can cause painful burns.
acid substances	Chemical compounds which yield hydrogen ions or protons when dissolved in water, whose hydrogen can be replaced by metals or basic radicals, or which react with bases to form salts and water (neutralization). An extension of the term includes substances dissolved in media other than water. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
hydrogen peroxide	A strong oxidizing agent used in aqueous solution as a ripening agent, bleach, and topical anti-infective. It is relatively unstable and solutions deteriorate over time unless stabilized by the addition of acetanilide or similar organic materials.
drug product	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
organic acids	organic chemical compound containing one or more carboxyl radicals, such as acetic, formic, lactic, and fatty acids.
dermatitis due to acids	Contact dermatitis caused by exposure to acids.
contact dermatitis due to acids	Contact dermatitis caused by exposure to acids.
carbocyclic acids	Carboxylic acids that have a homocyclic ring structure in which all the ring atoms are carbon.
peramivir	A cyclopentane derivative with activity against influenza A and B viruses. Peramivir is a neuraminidase inhibitor which prevents normal processing of virus particles such that virus particles are not released from infected cells.
acidulated fluoride phosphate	A sodium fluoride solution, paste or powder, which has been acidulated to pH 3 to 4 and buffered with a phosphate. It is used in the prevention of dental caries.
dental caries	Localized destruction of the tooth surface initiated by decalcification of the enamel followed by enzymatic lysis of organic structures and leading to cavity formation. If left unchecked, the cavity may penetrate the enamel and dentin and reach the pulp.
acidulated phosphate fluoride	A sodium fluoride solution, paste or powder, which has been acidulated to pH 3 to 4 and buffered with a phosphate. It is used in the prevention of dental caries.
dental plaque	A film that attaches to teeth, often causing DENTAL CARIES and GINGIVITIS. It is composed of MUCINS, secreted from salivary glands, and microorganisms.
allergic reaction caused by drug	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
fluorine-	Inorganic salts of hydrofluoric acid, HF, in which the fluorine atom is in the -1 oxidation state. (McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 4th ed) Sodium and stannous salts are commonly used in dentifrices.
genus acinetobacter	A genus of gram-negative bacteria of the family MORAXELLACEAE, found in soil and water and of uncertain pathogenicity.
acinetobacter johnsonii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Acinetobacter johnsonii.
acinetobacter	A genus of gram-negative bacteria of the family MORAXELLACEAE, found in soil and water and of uncertain pathogenicity.
acinetobacter ursingii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Acinetobacter ursingii.
acinetobacter anitratus	A species of gram-negative, aerobic bacteria found in soil and water. Although considered to be normally nonpathogenic, this bacterium is a causative agent of nosocomial infections, particularly in debilitated individuals.
acinetobacter junii	A species of aerobic, Gram negative, rod and cocci shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Proteobacteria. This bacteria is oxidase negative, catalase positive, does not reduce nitrates, nonhemolytic and is beta xyloxidase negative. A. junii is found in human clinical samples.
carbapenem resistant acinetobacter	Any species, subspecies, or strain of Acinetobacter that is able to grow in the presence of carbapenem.
moraxella lwoffi	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Acinetobacter lwoffii.
acinetobacter parvus	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Acinetobacter parvus.
acinetobacter infections	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACINETOBACTER.
acinetobacter lwoffii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Acinetobacter lwoffii.
amikacin	A broad-spectrum antibiotic derived from KANAMYCIN. It is reno- and oto-toxic like the other aminoglycoside antibiotics.
acinetobacter infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACINETOBACTER.
amikacin sulfate	The sulfate salt of amikacin, a broad-spectrum semi-synthetic aminoglycoside antibiotic, derived from kanamycin with antimicrobial property. Amikacin irreversibly binds to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, specifically in contact with 16S rRNA and S12 protein within the 30S subunit. This leads to interference with translational initiation complex and misreading of mRNA, thereby hampering protein synthesis and resulting in bactericidal effect. This agent is usually used in short-term treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of Gram-negative bacteria.
infect mimae	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACINETOBACTER.
ceftazidime	Semisynthetic, broad-spectrum antibacterial derived from CEPHALORIDINE and used especially for Pseudomonas and other gram-negative infections in debilitated patients.
ceftriaxone	A broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic and cefotaxime derivative with a very long half-life and high penetrability to meninges, eyes and inner ears.
kanamycin	Antibiotic complex produced by Streptomyces kanamyceticus from Japanese soil. Comprises 3 components: kanamycin A, the major component, and kanamycins B and C, the minor components.
kanamycin a	The major component of the kanamycin complex, an aminoglycoside antibiotic isolated from Streptomyces kanamyceticus, with antibacterial activity.
sulbactam	A beta-lactamase inhibitor with very weak antibacterial action. The compound prevents antibiotic destruction of beta-lactam antibiotics by inhibiting beta-lactamases, thus extending their spectrum activity. Combinations of sulbactam with beta-lactam antibiotics have been used successfully for the therapy of infections caused by organisms resistant to the antibiotic alone.
sulbactam pivoxyl	The pivoxil prodrug form of sulbactam, a semi-synthetic beta-lactamase inhibitor, with beta-lactam antibiotic adjuvant activity. After oral administration of sulbactam pivoxil, the ester bond is cleaved, releasing active sulbactam. The beta-lactam ring of sulbactam irreversibly binds to beta-lactamase at or near its active site, thereby blocking enzyme activity and preventing metabolism of other beta-lactam antibiotics by the enzyme.
ceftriaxone sodium	The sodium salt form of ceftriaxone, a beta-lactam, third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Ceftriaxone binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. PBPs participate in the terminal stages of assembling the bacterial cell wall, and in reshaping the cell wall during cell division. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and causes cell lysis. Compared to the second and first generation cephalosporins, ceftriaxone is more active against gram-negative bacteria and less active against gram-positive bacteria. Ceftriaxone also crosses the blood-brain barrier and reaches therapeutic concentrations in the central nervous system (CNS).
ceftazidime sodium	The sodium salt of ceftazidime, a third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Ceftazidime binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), enzymes located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, resulting in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and cell lysis. Compared to the second and first generation cephalosporins, ceftazidime is more active against gram-negative bacteria and less active against gram-positive bacteria. Ceftazidine also crosses the blood-brain barrier and reaches therapeutic concentrations in the central nervous system (CNS). PBPs participate in the terminal stages of assembling the bacterial cell wall, and in reshaping the cell wall during cell division. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity.
mimae infect	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACINETOBACTER.
kanamycin a sulfate	The sulfate salt form of kanamycin A, the major component of the kanamycin complex, an aminoglycoside antibiotic isolated from Streptomyces kanamyceticus, with antibacterial activity.
ceftazidime anhydrous	An anhydrous form of ceftazidime, a third-generation, beta-lactam, cephalosporin antibiotic with bactericidal activity.
infect acinetobacter	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACINETOBACTER.
opportunistic bacterial infection	An infection that is caused by a bacterium that would generally not be able to cause an infection in a host with a normal immune system. Such bacteria take advantage of the opportunity, so to speak, that is provided by a weakened immune system. []
aclacinomycin-a	An anthracycline produced by Streptomyces galilaeus. It has potent antineoplastic activity.
antineoplastic antibiotic	Chemical substances, produced by microorganisms, inhibiting or preventing the proliferation of neoplasms.
aclarubicina	An anthracycline produced by Streptomyces galilaeus. It has potent antineoplastic activity.
anthracycline	organic compounds with a tetrahydronaphthacenedione ring structure attached by a glycosidic linkage to the amino sugar daunosamine.
aclacinomycin a	An anthracycline produced by Streptomyces galilaeus. It has potent antineoplastic activity.
antitumor antibiotics	Chemical substances, produced by microorganisms, inhibiting or preventing the proliferation of neoplasms.
aclarubicin	An anthracycline produced by Streptomyces galilaeus. It has potent antineoplastic activity.
topoisomerase ii inhibitors	Compounds that inhibit the activity of DNA TOPOISOMERASE II. Included in this category are a variety of ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS which target the eukaryotic form of topoisomerase II and ANTIBACTERIAL AGENTS which target the prokaryotic form of topoisomerase II.
aclarubicin product	An anthracycline produced by Streptomyces galilaeus. It has potent antineoplastic activity.
anthracyclines	organic compounds with a tetrahydronaphthacenedione ring structure attached by a glycosidic linkage to the amino sugar daunosamine.
antineoplastic agent	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
aclarubicin - chemical	An anthracycline produced by Streptomyces galilaeus. It has potent antineoplastic activity.
antibiotics antineopl	Chemical substances, produced by microorganisms, inhibiting or preventing the proliferation of neoplasms.
acm-a	An anthracycline produced by Streptomyces galilaeus. It has potent antineoplastic activity.
antitumor antibiotic	Chemical substances, produced by microorganisms, inhibiting or preventing the proliferation of neoplasms.
dna topoisomerase ii inhibitors	Compounds that inhibit the activity of DNA TOPOISOMERASE II. Included in this category are a variety of ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS which target the eukaryotic form of topoisomerase II and ANTIBACTERIAL AGENTS which target the prokaryotic form of topoisomerase II.
aclacinomycins	An oligosaccharide anthracycline antibiotic isolated from strains of the bacterium Streptomyces galilaeus with potential antineoplastic activity. These agents display potent antitumor properties due to their ability to intercalate into DNA and interfere with the function of both the topoisomerase I and II enzymes, thereby inhibiting DNA replication and ultimately, interfering with RNA and protein synthesis.
anticancer antibiotics	Chemical substances, produced by microorganisms, inhibiting or preventing the proliferation of neoplasms.
topoisomerase ii inhibitor	Compounds that inhibit the activity of DNA TOPOISOMERASE II. Included in this category are a variety of ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS which target the eukaryotic form of topoisomerase II and ANTIBACTERIAL AGENTS which target the prokaryotic form of topoisomerase II.
acne vulgaris	A chronic disorder of the pilosebaceous apparatus associated with an increase in sebum secretion. It is characterized by open comedones (blackheads), closed comedones (whiteheads), and pustular nodules. The cause is unknown, but heredity and age are predisposing factors.
benzoyl superoxide	A peroxide derivative that has been used topically for BURNS and as a dermatologic agent in the treatment of ACNE and POISON IVY DERMATITIS. It is used also as a bleach in the food industry.
hexaclorofeno	A chlorinated bisphenol antiseptic with a bacteriostatic action against Gram-positive organisms, but much less effective against Gram-negative organisms. It is mainly used in soaps and creams and is an ingredient of various preparations used for skin disorders. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p797)
acne; vulgaris	A chronic disorder of the pilosebaceous apparatus associated with an increase in sebum secretion. It is characterized by open comedones (blackheads), closed comedones (whiteheads), and pustular nodules. The cause is unknown, but heredity and age are predisposing factors.
isotretinoin	A topical dermatologic agent that is used in the treatment of ACNE VULGARIS and several other skin diseases. The drug has teratogenic and other adverse effects.
minocycline hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of minocycline, a broad spectrum long-acting derivative of the antibiotic tetracycline, with antibacterial and anti-inflammatory activities. Minocycline binds to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit and interferes with the binding of tRNA to the ribosomal complex, thereby inhibiting protein translation in bacteria. In addition, minocycline inhibits the inflammatory enzyme 5-lipoxygenase (5LOX) and may impede T cell-microglia interactions; both activities may contribute to minocycline's neuroprotective effects. 5LOX catalyzes the synthesis of inflammatory mediators such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes.
product containing minocycline	A TETRACYCLINE analog, having a 7-dimethylamino and lacking the 5 methyl and hydroxyl groups, which is effective against tetracycline-resistant STAPHYLOCOCCUS infections.
salicylate	o-hydroxybenzoate.
sodium salicylate	A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that is less effective than equal doses of ASPIRIN in relieving pain and reducing fever. However, individuals who are hypersensitive to ASPIRIN may tolerate sodium salicylate. In general, this salicylate produces the same adverse reactions as ASPIRIN, but there is less occult gastrointestinal bleeding. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p120)
all-trans-vitamin a acid	An important regulator of GENE EXPRESSION during growth and development, and in NEOPLASMS. Tretinoin, also known as retinoic acid and derived from maternal VITAMIN A, is essential for normal GROWTH; and EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT. An excess of tretinoin can be teratogenic. It is used in the treatment of PSORIASIS; ACNE VULGARIS; and several other SKIN DISEASES. It has also been approved for use in promyelocytic leukemia (LEUKEMIA, PROMYELOCYTIC, ACUTE).
azelaic acid	A naturally occurring dicarboxylic acid produced by Malassezia furfur and found in whole grain cereals, rye, barley and animal products. Azelaic acid possesses antibacterial, keratolytic, comedolytic, and anti-oxidant activity. Azelaic acid is bactericidal against Proprionibacterium acnes and Staphylococcus epidermidis due to its inhibitory effect on the synthesis of microbial cellular proteins. Azelaic acid exerts its keratolytic and comedolytic effects by reducing the thickness of the stratum corneum and decreasing the number of keratohyalin granules by reducing the amount and distribution of filaggrin in epidermal layers. Azelaic acid also possesses a direct anti-inflammatory effect due to its scavenger activity of free oxygen radical. This drug is used topically to reduce inflammation associated with acne and rosacea.
erythromycin lactobionate	The lactobionate salt form of erythromycin, a broad-spectrum, topical macrolide antibiotic with antibacterial activity. Erythromycin lactobionate diffuses through the bacterial cell membrane and reversibly binds to the 50S subunit of the bacterial ribosome. This prevents bacterial protein synthesis. Erythromycin lactobionate may be bacteriostatic or bactericidal in action, depending on the concentration of the drug at the site of infection and the susceptibility of the organism involved.
tazarotene	A synthetic, topical retinoid. Tazarotene induces the expression of tazarotene-induced gene 3 (TIG3), a tumor suppressor gene. In psoriasis, tazarotene normalizes abnormal keratinocyte differentiation and reduces their hyperproliferation. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29487" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29487" NCI Thesaurus)
clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride	The palmitate hydrochloride form of clindamycin, a semi-synthetic, chlorinated broad spectrum antibiotic produced by chemical modification of lincomycin. Clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride is used for oral suspension.
vulgaris - acne	A chronic disorder of the pilosebaceous apparatus associated with an increase in sebum secretion. It is characterized by open comedones (blackheads), closed comedones (whiteheads), and pustular nodules. The cause is unknown, but heredity and age are predisposing factors.
trifarotene	A selective retinoic acid receptor gamma (RAR gamma) agonist that can be used in the treatment of acne vulgaris. Upon topical application, trifarotene selectively binds to the RAR gamma receptor, thereby altering the expression of certain genes that are involved in inflammation and cellular differentiation.
blackheads	A comedo in which the part of the pore at the surface of the skin is stretched and open, exposing the contents of the comedo, which appear black. []
cystic acne	A severe type of acne characterized by the formation of cysts enclosing a mixture of keratin and sebum. [PMID:9212761]
common acne	A chronic disorder of the pilosebaceous apparatus associated with an increase in sebum secretion. It is characterized by open comedones (blackheads), closed comedones (whiteheads), and pustular nodules. The cause is unknown, but heredity and age are predisposing factors.
whiteheads	A comedo in which the top of the pore is not stretched open and thus does not expose the clogged portion (which would appear black), hence the name whitehead. []
comedonal acne	A type of acne in which open and closed comedones comprise the majority of the lesions, with substantially fewer papules and pustules. [PMID:18177407]
whitehead	A comedo in which the top of the pore is not stretched open and thus does not expose the clogged portion (which would appear black), hence the name whitehead. []
conglobata; acne	Severe and chronic form of acne characterized by large, burrowing abscesses associated with disfigurement.
acne nos	chronic inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous apparatus marked by an increase in sebum secretions causing lesions most frequently occurring on the face, chest, and back; the inflamed glands may form small pink papules, which sometimes surround comedones so that they have black centers (blackheads), or form pustules or cysts (whiteheads).
sebaceous glands	Small, sacculated organs found within the DERMIS. Each gland has a single duct that emerges from a cluster of oval alveoli. Each alveolus consists of a transparent BASEMENT MEMBRANE enclosing epithelial cells. The ducts from most sebaceous glands open into a HAIR FOLLICLE, but some open on the general surface of the SKIN. Sebaceous glands secrete SEBUM.
lesion	A localized pathological or traumatic structural change, damage, deformity, or discontinuity of tissue, organ, or body part.
acnes	chronic inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous apparatus marked by an increase in sebum secretions causing lesions most frequently occurring on the face, chest, and back; the inflamed glands may form small pink papules, which sometimes surround comedones so that they have black centers (blackheads), or form pustules or cysts (whiteheads).
acne conglobata	Severe and chronic form of acne characterized by large, burrowing abscesses associated with disfigurement.
lesions	A localized pathological or traumatic structural change, damage, deformity, or discontinuity of tissue, organ, or body part.
skin inflamed	Any inflammation of the skin.
integumentary system	The outer covering of the body composed of the SKIN and the skin appendages, which are the HAIR, the NAILS; and the SEBACEOUS GLANDS and the SWEAT GLANDS and their ducts.
acne keloid	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
papillaris capillitii; dermatitis	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
dermatitis papillaris capillitii	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
inflammation nos	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
dermatitis papillaris capilliti	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
keloids	A sharply elevated, irregularly shaped, progressively enlarging scar resulting from formation of excessive amounts of collagen in the dermis during connective tissue repair. It is differentiated from a hypertrophic scar (CICATRIX, HYPERTROPHIC) in that the former does not spread to surrounding tissues.
acne keloidalis	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
folliculitis cheloidalis	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
scar keloid	A sharply elevated, irregularly shaped, progressively enlarging scar resulting from formation of excessive amounts of collagen in the dermis during connective tissue repair. It is differentiated from a hypertrophic scar (CICATRIX, HYPERTROPHIC) in that the former does not spread to surrounding tissues.
sycosis nuchae	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
set of hairs	A filament-like structure consisting of a shaft which projects to the surface of the SKIN from a root which is softer than the shaft and lodges in the cavity of a HAIR FOLLICLE. It is found on most surfaces of the body.
folliculitis keloidalis	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
keloid scarring	A sharply elevated, irregularly shaped, progressively enlarging scar resulting from formation of excessive amounts of collagen in the dermis during connective tissue repair. It is differentiated from a hypertrophic scar (CICATRIX, HYPERTROPHIC) in that the former does not spread to surrounding tissues.
keloid	A sharply elevated, irregularly shaped, progressively enlarging scar resulting from formation of excessive amounts of collagen in the dermis during connective tissue repair. It is differentiated from a hypertrophic scar (CICATRIX, HYPERTROPHIC) in that the former does not spread to surrounding tissues.
keloid scar of skin	A sharply elevated, irregularly shaped, progressively enlarging scar resulting from formation of excessive amounts of collagen in the dermis during connective tissue repair. It is differentiated from a hypertrophic scar (CICATRIX, HYPERTROPHIC) in that the former does not spread to surrounding tissues.
folliculitis keloidalis nuchae	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
hair follicles	A tube-like invagination of the EPIDERMIS from which the hair shaft develops and into which SEBACEOUS GLANDS open. The hair follicle is lined by a cellular inner and outer root sheath of epidermal origin and is invested with a fibrous sheath derived from the dermis. (Stedman, 26th ed) Follicles of very long hairs extend into the subcutaneous layer of tissue under the SKIN.
acne cheloidalis	A type of acneiform disorder in which secondary pyogenic infection in and around pilosebaceous structures ends in keloidal scarring. It manifests as persistent folliculitis of the back of the neck associated with occlusion of the follicular orifices. It is most often encountered in black or Asian men.
cheloid	A sharply elevated, irregularly shaped, progressively enlarging scar resulting from formation of excessive amounts of collagen in the dermis during connective tissue repair. It is differentiated from a hypertrophic scar (CICATRIX, HYPERTROPHIC) in that the former does not spread to surrounding tissues.
dermatologic organ system	The outer covering of the body composed of the SKIN and the skin appendages, which are the HAIR, the NAILS; and the SEBACEOUS GLANDS and the SWEAT GLANDS and their ducts.
isocitrate hydro lyase	An enzyme that catalyzes the reversible hydration of cis-aconitate to yield citrate or isocitrate. It is one of the citric acid cycle enzymes. EC 4.2.1.3.
enzyme	Biological molecules that possess catalytic activity. They may occur naturally or be synthetically created. Enzymes are usually proteins, however CATALYTIC RNA and CATALYTIC DNA molecules have also been identified.
aconitase	An enzyme that catalyzes the reversible hydration of cis-aconitate to yield citrate or isocitrate. It is one of the citric acid cycle enzymes. EC 4.2.1.3.
aconitum napellus root	Dried root of Aconitum napellus.
alkaloid product	Organic nitrogenous bases. Many alkaloids of medical importance occur in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and some have been synthesized. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
acetylbenzoyl aconine	A C19 norditerpenoid alkaloid (DITERPENES) from the root of ACONITUM; DELPHINIUM and larkspurs. It activates VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. It has been used to induce ARRHYTHMIAS in experimental animals and it has anti-inflammatory and anti-neuralgic properties.
voltage gated sodium channel stimulators	Compounds that either stimulate the opening or prevent closure of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
aconitinum	A C19 norditerpenoid alkaloid (DITERPENES) from the root of ACONITUM; DELPHINIUM and larkspurs. It activates VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. It has been used to induce ARRHYTHMIAS in experimental animals and it has anti-inflammatory and anti-neuralgic properties.
alkaloid	Organic nitrogenous bases. Many alkaloids of medical importance occur in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and some have been synthesized. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
aconitine	A C19 norditerpenoid alkaloid (DITERPENES) from the root of ACONITUM; DELPHINIUM and larkspurs. It activates VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. It has been used to induce ARRHYTHMIAS in experimental animals and it has anti-inflammatory and anti-neuralgic properties.
voltage-gated sodium channel agonists	Compounds that either stimulate the opening or prevent closure of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
immunologic adjuvant	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
voltage-gated sodium channel stimulators	Compounds that either stimulate the opening or prevent closure of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
voltage gated sodium channel activators	Compounds that either stimulate the opening or prevent closure of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
voltage gated sodium channel agonist	Compounds that either stimulate the opening or prevent closure of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
voltage-gated sodium channel activators	Compounds that either stimulate the opening or prevent closure of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
impedance testing	Objective tests of middle ear function based on the difficulty (impedance) or ease (admittance) of sound flow through the middle ear. These include static impedance and dynamic impedance (i.e., tympanometry and impedance tests in conjunction with intra-aural muscle reflex elicitation). This term is used also for various components of impedance and admittance (e.g., compliance, conductance, reactance, resistance, susceptance).
clinical hearing test	Part of an ear examination that measures the ability of sound to reach the brain.
oto-admittance tests	Objective tests of middle ear function based on the difficulty (impedance) or ease (admittance) of sound flow through the middle ear. These include static impedance and dynamic impedance (i.e., tympanometry and impedance tests in conjunction with intra-aural muscle reflex elicitation). This term is used also for various components of impedance and admittance (e.g., compliance, conductance, reactance, resistance, susceptance).
auditory acuity evaluation	Part of an ear examination that measures the ability of sound to reach the brain.
impedance audiometry	Objective tests of middle ear function based on the difficulty (impedance) or ease (admittance) of sound flow through the middle ear. These include static impedance and dynamic impedance (i.e., tympanometry and impedance tests in conjunction with intra-aural muscle reflex elicitation). This term is used also for various components of impedance and admittance (e.g., compliance, conductance, reactance, resistance, susceptance).
testing	A procedure for critical evaluation; a means of determining the presence, quality, or truth of something.
diagnostic - intent	Characteristic or indicative of a condition.
auditory system	The organs involved with detecting and processing auditory information, including the pinna, external auditory canal, ear drum, middle ear, and inner ear (including the cochlear organ).
assessment procedure	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
assessment procedures	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
middle ear function test	Objective tests of middle ear function based on the difficulty (impedance) or ease (admittance) of sound flow through the middle ear. These include static impedance and dynamic impedance (i.e., tympanometry and impedance tests in conjunction with intra-aural muscle reflex elicitation). This term is used also for various components of impedance and admittance (e.g., compliance, conductance, reactance, resistance, susceptance).
investigations	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
tympanometry test	The study of the mobility of the tympanic membrane and conduction bones through air pressure changes. It is used to detect middle ear abnormalities.
auditory test	Part of an ear examination that measures the ability of sound to reach the brain.
ear structure	The hearing and equilibrium system of the body. It consists of three parts: the EXTERNAL EAR, the MIDDLE EAR, and the INNER EAR. Sound waves are transmitted through this organ where vibration is transduced to nerve signals that pass through the ACOUSTIC NERVE to the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. The inner ear also contains the vestibular organ that maintains equilibrium by transducing signals to the VESTIBULAR NERVE.
tested	A procedure for critical evaluation; a means of determining the presence, quality, or truth of something.
diagnostic	Characteristic or indicative of a condition.
investigation	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
investigation nos	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
acoustic impedance test	Objective tests of middle ear function based on the difficulty (impedance) or ease (admittance) of sound flow through the middle ear. These include static impedance and dynamic impedance (i.e., tympanometry and impedance tests in conjunction with intra-aural muscle reflex elicitation). This term is used also for various components of impedance and admittance (e.g., compliance, conductance, reactance, resistance, susceptance).
clinical evaluation	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
nervus vestibulocochlearis [viii]	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
cochlear root of acoustic nerve	The cochlear part of the 8th cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE). The cochlear nerve fibers originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project peripherally to cochlear hair cells and centrally to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS) of the BRAIN STEM. They mediate the sense of hearing.
vestibulocochlear nerve	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
cranial nerve structure	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
eighth cranial nerve	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
acoustic nerve	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
nervus acusticus	The cochlear part of the 8th cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE). The cochlear nerve fibers originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project peripherally to cochlear hair cells and centrally to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS) of the BRAIN STEM. They mediate the sense of hearing.
auditory nerve	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
vestibular nerves	The vestibular part of the 8th cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE). The vestibular nerve fibers arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project peripherally to vestibular hair cells and centrally to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI of the BRAIN STEM. These fibers mediate the sense of balance and head position.
cranial nerve viii	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
peripheral nervous systems	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
statoacoustic nerves	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
cochlear nerve	The cochlear part of the 8th cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE). The cochlear nerve fibers originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project peripherally to cochlear hair cells and centrally to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS) of the BRAIN STEM. They mediate the sense of hearing.
acoustic and vestibular nerves	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
efferent cochleovestibular bundle	refers to a tract located between the abducens nucleus and the internal genu of the facial nerve in the rat ( Swanson-2004 ).\r\n
eighth cranial nerves	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
pons cerebelli	The front part of the hindbrain (RHOMBENCEPHALON) that lies between the MEDULLA and the midbrain (MESENCEPHALON) ventral to the cerebellum. It is composed of two parts, the dorsal and the ventral. The pons serves as a relay station for neural pathways between the CEREBELLUM to the CEREBRUM.
vestibulocochlear nerve tree	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
structure of spiral ganglion	The sensory ganglion of the COCHLEAR NERVE. The cells of the spiral ganglion send fibers peripherally to the cochlear hair cells and centrally to the COCHLEAR NUCLEI of the BRAIN STEM.
vestibulocochlear nerve structure	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
fibrae vestibulares	The vestibular part of the 8th cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE). The vestibular nerve fibers arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project peripherally to vestibular hair cells and centrally to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI of the BRAIN STEM. These fibers mediate the sense of balance and head position.
nervus statoacusticus	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
auditory pathway	NEURAL PATHWAYS and connections within the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM, beginning at the hair cells of the ORGAN OF CORTI, continuing along the eighth cranial nerve, and terminating at the AUDITORY CORTEX.
nerves.cranial	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
inner ear	internal ear; the essential part of the organ of hearing, consisting of an osseous and a membranous portion.
acoustic nerve disorder nos	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
neuroma - acoustic	A benign SCHWANNOMA of the eighth cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE), mostly arising from the vestibular branch (VESTIBULAR NERVE) during the fifth or sixth decade of life. Clinical manifestations include HEARING LOSS; HEADACHE; VERTIGO; TINNITUS; and FACIAL PAIN. Bilateral acoustic neuromas are associated with NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p673)
injury of acoustic nerve	Traumatic injuries to the VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE.
tumor of the acoustic nerve	A benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve. Clinical features may include hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, headache and involvement of the trigeminal or facial nerves.
malignant neoplasm of acoustic nerve	A primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve.
cranial nerve viiis	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
nervus vestibularis	The vestibular part of the 8th cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE). The vestibular nerve fibers arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project peripherally to vestibular hair cells and centrally to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI of the BRAIN STEM. These fibers mediate the sense of balance and head position.
cns cranial nerves	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
internal ear	internal ear; the essential part of the organ of hearing, consisting of an osseous and a membranous portion.
vestibular nerve	The vestibular part of the 8th cranial nerve (VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE). The vestibular nerve fibers arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project peripherally to vestibular hair cells and centrally to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI of the BRAIN STEM. These fibers mediate the sense of balance and head position.
vestibulocochlear nerve diseases	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
neurofibromatosis iis	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
traumatic eighth-nerve palsies	Traumatic injuries to the VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE.
neoplasm of acoustic nerve	A benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve. Clinical features may include hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, headache and involvement of the trigeminal or facial nerves.
acoustic nerve disorders	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
cochleovestibular nerves	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
nervous system structure	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
cochleovestibular nerve	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
eighth cranial nerve neoplasm	A benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve. Clinical features may include hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, headache and involvement of the trigeminal or facial nerves.
cancer of the vestibulocochlear nerve	A primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve.
anatomical location	Terminology codelist used with Anatomical Locations within the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Study Data Tabulation Model.
auditory; nerve	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
disorder of vestibulocochlear nerve	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
disorder of acoustovestibular nerve	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
labyrinthine	internal ear; the essential part of the organ of hearing, consisting of an osseous and a membranous portion.
disorders of acoustic nerve	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
tumor of vestibulocochlear nerve	A benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve. Clinical features may include hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, headache and involvement of the trigeminal or facial nerves.
vestibulocochlear nerve dis	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
epidemic vertigo	Idiopathic inflammation of the VESTIBULAR NERVE, characterized clinically by the acute or subacute onset of VERTIGO; NAUSEA; and imbalance. The COCHLEAR NERVE is typically spared and HEARING LOSS and TINNITUS do not usually occur. Symptoms usually resolve over a period of days to weeks. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p304)
auditory alteration	Conditions that impair the transmission of auditory impulses and information from the level of the ear to the temporal cortices, including the sensorineural pathways.
injury to eighth cranial nerve	Traumatic injuries to the VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE.
disorder of acoustic nerve	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
labyrinth	internal ear; the essential part of the organ of hearing, consisting of an osseous and a membranous portion.
injury to auditory nerve	Traumatic injuries to the VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE.
disorder of eighth nerve	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
vestibulocochlear nerve trauma	Traumatic injuries to the VESTIBULOCOCHLEAR NERVE.
acoustic nerve tumors vestibular	A benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve. Clinical features may include hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, headache and involvement of the trigeminal or facial nerves.
brain--diseases	Pathologic conditions affecting the BRAIN, which is composed of the intracranial components of the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. This includes (but is not limited to) the CEREBRAL CORTEX; intracranial white matter; BASAL GANGLIA; THALAMUS; HYPOTHALAMUS; BRAIN STEM; and CEREBELLUM.
acoustic nerve disorder	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
peripheral neuropathy	Diseases of the peripheral nerves external to the brain and spinal cord, which includes diseases of the nerve roots, ganglia, plexi, autonomic nerves, sensory nerves, and motor nerves.
nervus octavus	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
eighth cranial nerve neoplasms	A benign or malignant neoplasm affecting the eighth cranial nerve, also referred to as the vestibulocochlear nerve. Clinical features may include hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, headache and involvement of the trigeminal or facial nerves.
cranial nerve z diseases	Disorders of one or more of the twelve cranial nerves. With the exception of the optic and olfactory nerves, this includes disorders of the brain stem nuclei from which the cranial nerves originate or terminate.
disorder of eighth cranial nerve	Sjukdomar i den 8:e hjärnnerven. Vestibularnervinflammation, hörselnervsinflammation och akustikusneurinom ingår. Beroende på vilken nerv som drabbas, kan de kliniska manifestationerna yttra sig som dövhet, yrsel eller tinnitus.
statoacoustic nerve	The 8th cranial nerve. The vestibulocochlear nerve has a cochlear part (COCHLEAR NERVE) which is concerned with hearing and a vestibular part (VESTIBULAR NERVE) which mediates the sense of balance and head position. The fibers of the cochlear nerve originate from neurons of the SPIRAL GANGLION and project to the cochlear nuclei (COCHLEAR NUCLEUS). The fibers of the vestibular nerve arise from neurons of Scarpa's ganglion and project to the VESTIBULAR NUCLEI.
auditory stimulation	Use of sound to elicit a response in the nervous system.
noises	Any sound which is unwanted or interferes with HEARING other sounds.
acoustics	The branch of physics that deals with sound and sound waves. In medicine it is often applied in procedures in speech and hearing studies. With regard to the environment, it refers to the characteristics of a room, auditorium, theatre, building, etc. that determines the audibility or fidelity of sounds in it. (From Random House Unabridged Dictionary, 2d ed)
general modifier	A term that helps define and render another concept unique.
acquired coagulation factor deficiency	Deficiency of a coagulation factor that is not caused by genetic alterations. Causes include vitamin K deficiency, amyloidosis, and severe liver disease.
stable factor deficiency	An autosomal recessive characteristic or a coagulation disorder acquired in association with VITAMIN K DEFICIENCY. FACTOR VII is a Vitamin K dependent glycoprotein essential to the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
acquired clotting factor deficiency	Deficiency of a coagulation factor that is not caused by genetic alterations. Causes include vitamin K deficiency, amyloidosis, and severe liver disease.
acquired factor viii deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor VIII activity in the blood.
acquired factor x deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor X activity in the blood.
acquired prothrombin deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of prothrombin (factor II) activity in the blood.
acq coagul factor defic	Deficiency of a coagulation factor that is not caused by genetic alterations. Causes include vitamin K deficiency, amyloidosis, and severe liver disease.
acquired haemophilia	A rare haemorrhagic disorder due to an acquired coagulation factor defect characterised by sudden, spontaneous, and often severe bleeding, manifesting with skin, muscle and mucous membrane haemorrhages, in persons without a previous bleeding tendency. Additional symptoms may include epistaxis, gastrointestinal and/or urogenital bleeding, spontaneous bruising, melaena and haematuria.
acquired factor ix deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor IX activity in the blood.
coagulopathy	Hemorrhagic and thrombotic disorders that occur as a consequence of abnormalities in blood coagulation due to a variety of factors such as COAGULATION PROTEIN DISORDERS; BLOOD PLATELET DISORDERS; BLOOD PROTEIN DISORDERS or nutritional conditions.
blood coagulation disorder	Hemorrhagic and thrombotic disorders that occur as a consequence of abnormalities in blood coagulation due to a variety of factors such as COAGULATION PROTEIN DISORDERS; BLOOD PLATELET DISORDERS; BLOOD PROTEIN DISORDERS or nutritional conditions.
coagulation factor deficiency syndrome	Includes both quantitative and qualitative disorders of procoagulants
clotting factor deficiency	Includes both quantitative and qualitative disorders of procoagulants
coagulation factor decreased	Includes both quantitative and qualitative disorders of procoagulants
congenital clotting factor deficiency	Includes both quantitative and qualitative disorders of procoagulants
acquired factor x deficiency disease	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor X activity in the blood.
hemostasis	The process which spontaneously arrests the flow of BLOOD from vessels carrying blood under pressure. It is accomplished by contraction of the vessels, adhesion and aggregation of formed blood elements (eg. ERYTHROCYTE AGGREGATION), and the process of BLOOD COAGULATION.
coagulation factor deficiency	Includes both quantitative and qualitative disorders of procoagulants
clotting factor; deficiency	Includes both quantitative and qualitative disorders of procoagulants
acquired factor viii deficiency disease	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor VIII activity in the blood.
acquired factor ii deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of prothrombin (factor II) activity in the blood.
acquired factor i deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of fibrinogen (factor I) activity in the blood.
acquired factor iii deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of tissue factor (factor III) activity in the blood.
acquired factor v deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor V activity in the blood.
acquired factor xi deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor XI activity in the blood.
acquired factor xii deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor XII activity in the blood.
acquired factor vii deficiency	An acquired coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of factor VII activity in the blood.
coagulation factors decreased	Includes both quantitative and qualitative disorders of procoagulants
acquired coagulation factor deficiency nos	Deficiency of a coagulation factor that is not caused by genetic alterations. Causes include vitamin K deficiency, amyloidosis, and severe liver disease.
hematopoietic and lymphatic system	The bodily system of organs and tissues, primarily the bone marrow, spleen, tonsils, and lymph nodes, involved in the production of blood considered together with the interconnected system of spaces and vessels between body tissues and organs by which lymph circulates throughout the body.
pediatric heme-onc terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events observed in clinical care and research in children and adolescents seen by experts in blood disorders and cancer.
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
zidovudine	A dideoxynucleoside compound in which the 3'-hydroxy group on the sugar moiety has been replaced by an azido group. This modification prevents the formation of phosphodiester linkages which are needed for the completion of nucleic acid chains. The compound is a potent inhibitor of HIV replication, acting as a chain-terminator of viral DNA during reverse transcription. It improves immunologic function, partially reverses the HIV-induced neurological dysfunction, and improves certain other clinical abnormalities associated with AIDS. Its principal toxic effect is dose-dependent suppression of bone marrow, resulting in anemia and leukopenia.
acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
saquinavir	HIV protease inhibitor which acts as an analog of an HIV protease cleavage site.
acquired immune deficiency syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
ritonavir	An HIV protease inhibitor that works by interfering with the reproductive cycle of HIV. It also inhibits CYTOCHROME P-450 CYP3A.
product containing enfuvirtide	A short polypeptide with activity against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Enfuvirtide binds to the first heptad-repeat (HR1) in the gp41 viral envelope glycoprotein, thereby preventing conformational changes required for fusion of viral and cellular membranes and preventing the virus from entering a host cell.
efavirenz	antiHIV 1 agent; reverse transcriptase inhibitor; 6-chloro-4-cyclopropylethynyl-4-trifluoromethyl-1, 4-dihydro-2H-3,1-benzoxazin-2-one.
acquired immune defic. syndr.	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
indinavir sulfate	A synthetic antiviral agent. Indinavir selectively binds to the active site of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease and inhibits its activity, preventing the protease-mediated cleavage of gag-pol viral polyproteins; as a result immature, noninfectious virions are produced.
acquired immuno deficiency syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
nelfinavir mesylate	The mesylate salt form of the antiviral agent nelfinavir. Nelfinavir selectively inhibits human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease, thereby preventing cleavage of the gag-pol viral polyprotein and resulting in the release of immature, noninfectious virions. In vivo, this agent exhibits broad tissue distribution compared to related agents. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1624" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1624" NCI Thesaurus)
darunavir	A human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) protease nonpeptidic inhibitor, with activity against HIV. Upon oral administration, darunavir selectively targets and binds to the active site of HIV-1 protease, and inhibits the dimerization and catalytic activity of HIV-1 protease. This inhibits the proteolytic cleavage of viral Gag and Gag-Pol polyproteins in HIV-infected cells. This inhibition leads to the production of immature, non-infectious viral proteins that are unable to form mature virions, and prevents HIV replication.
aids - acquired immunodeficiency syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
darunavir ethanolate	The ethanolate form of darunavir, a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) protease nonpeptidic inhibitor, with activity against HIV. Upon oral administration, darunavir selectively targets and binds to the active site of HIV-1 protease, and inhibits the dimerization and catalytic activity of HIV-1 protease. This inhibits the proteolytic cleavage of viral Gag and Gag-Pol polyproteins in HIV-infected cells. This inhibition leads to the production of immature, non-infectious viral proteins that are unable to form mature virions, and prevents HIV replication.
acquired immune deficiency syndrome [aids]	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
aids encephalopathy	Encephalopathy resulting from AIDS.
viral disease	A general term for diseases caused by viruses.
hiv/aids--living with	<h3>What are HIV and AIDS?</h3> <p>HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It harms your immune system by destroying a type of white blood cell that helps your body fight infection. AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. It is the final stage of infection with HIV. Not everyone with HIV develops AIDS.</p> <h3>Are there treatments for HIV/AIDS?</h3> <p>There is no cure, but there are many <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsmedicines.html">medicines</a> to treat both HIV infection and the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsandinfections.html">infections</a> and cancers that come with it. The medicines allow people with HIV to have long, healthy lives.</p> <h3>How can I live a healthier life with HIV? </h3> <p>IIf you have HIV, you can help yourself by</p> <ul> <li>Getting medical care as soon as you find out that you have HIV. You should find a health care provider who has experience in treating HIV/AIDS.</li> <li>Making sure to take your medicines regularly</li> <li>Keeping up with your regular medical and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/dentalhealth.html">dental care</a></li> <li>Managing <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/stress.html">stress</a> and getting support, such as from support groups, therapists, and social service organizations</li> <li>Learning as much as you can about HIV/AIDS and its treatments</li> <li>Trying to live a healthy lifestyle, including</li> <ul> <li>Eating healthy foods.This can give your body the energy it needs to fight HIV and other infections. It can also help you manage HIV symptoms and medicine side effects. It may also improve absorption of your HIV medicines.</li> <li>Exercising regularly. This can strengthen your body and immune system. It may also reduce the risk of <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/depression.html">depression</a>. </li><li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/healthysleep.html">Getting enough sleep</a>. Sleep is important for your physical strength and mental health.</li> <li>Not smoking. People with HIV who smoke have a higher risk of developing conditions such as certain cancers and infections. Smoking can also interfere with your medicines.</li> </ul> </ul> <p>It is also important to reduce the risk of spreading HIV to other people. You should tell your sex partners that you have HIV, and always use condoms.</p>
human immunodeficiency virus [hiv] disease	any state of infection accompanied by evidence of HIV in the body (positive test for HIV genome, cDNA, proteins, antigens, or antibodies); may be medically asymptomatic or symptomatic; use AIDS when appropriate.
acquired immune defic syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
autoimmune disorder	Disorders that are characterized by the production of antibodies that react with host tissues or immune effector cells that are autoreactive to endogenous peptides.
autoimmune disease	Disorders that are characterized by the production of antibodies that react with host tissues or immune effector cells that are autoreactive to endogenous peptides.
acquired immune defic. synd.	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
acquired immunodefic syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
autoimmune disorders	Disorders that are characterized by the production of antibodies that react with host tissues or immune effector cells that are autoreactive to endogenous peptides.
autoimmune diseases	Disorders that are characterized by the production of antibodies that react with host tissues or immune effector cells that are autoreactive to endogenous peptides.
hiv disease; encephalopathy	Encephalopathy resulting from AIDS.
aids related complex	A prodromal phase of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Laboratory criteria separating AIDS-related complex (ARC) from AIDS include elevated or hyperactive B-cell humoral immune responses, compared to depressed or normal antibody reactivity in AIDS; follicular or mixed hyperplasia in ARC lymph nodes, leading to lymphocyte degeneration and depletion more typical of AIDS; evolving succession of histopathological lesions such as localization of Kaposi's sarcoma, signaling the transition to the full-blown AIDS.
acquired immunodeficiency disease	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
immune system finding	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the immune system. (NCI)
aids-related small noncleaved cell lymphoma	A Burkitt lymphoma occurring in HIV-positive patients.
acquired immun-deficiency synd	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
aids associated immunoblastic lymphoma	A morphologic variant of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma occurring in HIV-positive patients.
hiv/aids	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
aids dementia complex	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
aids-related complex	A prodromal phase of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Laboratory criteria separating AIDS-related complex (ARC) from AIDS include elevated or hyperactive B-cell humoral immune responses, compared to depressed or normal antibody reactivity in AIDS; follicular or mixed hyperplasia in ARC lymph nodes, leading to lymphocyte degeneration and depletion more typical of AIDS; evolving succession of histopathological lesions such as localization of Kaposi's sarcoma, signaling the transition to the full-blown AIDS.
autoimmune deficiency syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
hiv positve	Development of neutralizing antibodies in individuals who have been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/HTLV-III/LAV).
acquired immune deficiency syndr	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
positive hiv	Development of neutralizing antibodies in individuals who have been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/HTLV-III/LAV).
hiv encephalopathy	Encephalopathy resulting from AIDS.
aids-related kaposi sarcoma	The most aggressive form of Kaposi sarcoma. It presents in patients who are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus. It can affect the skin and internal organs.
hiv wasting syndrome	Involuntary weight loss of greater than 10 percent associated with intermittent or constant fever and chronic diarrhea or fatigue for more than 30 days in the absence of a defined cause other than HIV infection. A constant feature is major muscle wasting with scattered myofiber degeneration. A variety of etiologies, which vary among patients, contributes to this syndrome. (From Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, 13th ed, p1611).
immunodefic syndrome acquired	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
hiv wasting dis	Involuntary weight loss of greater than 10 percent associated with intermittent or constant fever and chronic diarrhea or fatigue for more than 30 days in the absence of a defined cause other than HIV infection. A constant feature is major muscle wasting with scattered myofiber degeneration. A variety of etiologies, which vary among patients, contributes to this syndrome. (From Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, 13th ed, p1611).
aids disorders	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
status; human immunodeficiency virus	The result of testing to determine if an individual is infected with the human immunodeficiency virus.
seropositive	A laboratory result which shows the presence of antibodies in the serum for the factor being tested.
slim disease	Involuntary weight loss of greater than 10 percent associated with intermittent or constant fever and chronic diarrhea or fatigue for more than 30 days in the absence of a defined cause other than HIV infection. A constant feature is major muscle wasting with scattered myofiber degeneration. A variety of etiologies, which vary among patients, contributes to this syndrome. (From Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, 13th ed, p1611).
disorder due to infection	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
immune system	The body's defense mechanism against foreign organisms or substances and deviant native cells. It includes the humoral immune response and the cell-mediated response and consists of a complex of interrelated cellular, molecular, and genetic components.
acquired immuno defic syndrome	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
immune systems	The body's defense mechanism against foreign organisms or substances and deviant native cells. It includes the humoral immune response and the cell-mediated response and consists of a complex of interrelated cellular, molecular, and genetic components.
acquired immune deficiency	An acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a CD4-positive T-lymphocyte count under 200 cells/microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes, and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms. Clinical manifestations also include emaciation (wasting) and dementia. These elements reflect criteria for AIDS as defined by the CDC in 1993.
lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia	Lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis is a benign lymphoproliferative disorder of the lung that is characterized by the presence of a dense, predominantly lymphocytic interstitial infiltrate (lymphocytes, plasma cells, other elements of the lymphoreticular system) that expands the alveolar septa. [HPO:probinson, PMID:32040879]
acremoniums	A mitosporic fungal genus with many reported ascomycetous teleomorphs. Cephalosporin antibiotics are derived from this genus.
ascomycotas	Ett fylum av svampar (sporsäcksvampar) med skiljeväggar i mycelet, vilka bildar sporangier av säckliknande celler (asci) som innehåller ascosporer. De flesta patogena svampar med sådant sexualstadium tillhör detta fylet.
phialemonium atrogriseum	Any fungal organism that can be assigned to the species Acremonium atrogriseum.
acremonium	A mitosporic fungal genus with many reported ascomycetous teleomorphs. Cephalosporin antibiotics are derived from this genus.
mitosporic ascomycota	heterogenous group of ascomycotic fungi whose common characteristic is the absence of a sexual state; many of the pathogenic fungi in humans belong to this group.
acridine orange	A cationic cytochemical stain specific for cell nuclei, especially DNA. It is used as a supravital stain and in fluorescence cytochemistry. It may cause mutations in microorganisms.
fluorescence agents	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
acridine orange base	A cationic cytochemical stain specific for cell nuclei, especially DNA. It is used as a supravital stain and in fluorescence cytochemistry. It may cause mutations in microorganisms.
mutagen	Chemical agents that increase the rate of genetic mutation by interfering with the function of nucleic acids. A clastogen is a specific mutagen that causes breaks in chromosomes.
acridine orange stain	A cationic cytochemical stain specific for cell nuclei, especially DNA. It is used as a supravital stain and in fluorescence cytochemistry. It may cause mutations in microorganisms.
genotoxins	Chemical agents that increase the rate of genetic mutation by interfering with the function of nucleic acids. A clastogen is a specific mutagen that causes breaks in chromosomes.
orange acridine	A cationic cytochemical stain specific for cell nuclei, especially DNA. It is used as a supravital stain and in fluorescence cytochemistry. It may cause mutations in microorganisms.
euchrysine	A cationic cytochemical stain specific for cell nuclei, especially DNA. It is used as a supravital stain and in fluorescence cytochemistry. It may cause mutations in microorganisms.
flourescent agent	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
mutagens	Chemical agents that increase the rate of genetic mutation by interfering with the function of nucleic acids. A clastogen is a specific mutagen that causes breaks in chromosomes.
fluorochrome	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
fluorochromes	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
acridine	heterocyclic three ring compound.
tacrine	A cholinesterase inhibitor that crosses the blood-brain barrier. Tacrine has been used to counter the effects of muscle relaxants, as a respiratory stimulant, and in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other central nervous system disorders.
acridines	Compounds that include the structure of acridine.
acridine carboxamide	A tricyclic acridine-based (or carboxamide-based) drug with dual topoisomerase inhibitor and potential antineoplastic activities. Acridine carboxamide inhibits both topoisomerases I and II and intercalates into DNA, resulting in DNA damage, the disruption of DNA repair and replication, the inhibition of RNA and protein synthesis, and cell death. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2203" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2203" NCI Thesaurus)
euflavine	3,6-Diamino-10-methylacridinium chloride mixt. with 3,6-acridinediamine. Fluorescent dye used as a local antiseptic and also as a biological stain. It intercalates into nucleic acids thereby inhibiting bacterial and viral replication.
intercalative compounds	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
acriflavine	3,6-Diamino-10-methylacridinium chloride mixt. with 3,6-acridinediamine. Fluorescent dye used as a local antiseptic and also as a biological stain. It intercalates into nucleic acids thereby inhibiting bacterial and viral replication.
intercalating ligand	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
local anti-infective	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
panflavin	3,6-Diamino-10-methylacridinium chloride mixt. with 3,6-acridinediamine. Fluorescent dye used as a local antiseptic and also as a biological stain. It intercalates into nucleic acids thereby inhibiting bacterial and viral replication.
dna intercalator	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
fluorescent dyes	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
antiseptics	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
intercalator	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
xanthacridinum	3,6-Diamino-10-methylacridinium chloride mixt. with 3,6-acridinediamine. Fluorescent dye used as a local antiseptic and also as a biological stain. It intercalates into nucleic acids thereby inhibiting bacterial and viral replication.
topical anti-infective	A natural or synthetic agent used for local application on skin, mucosa, or cavities, a Topical Anti-Infective Agent, formulated as a sterile solution or cream, commonly displays therapeutic or prophylactic antibiotic properties against infectious viral, bacterial, or protozoal agents by inhibiting growth and survival. (NCI04)
choliflavin	3,6-Diamino-10-methylacridinium chloride mixt. with 3,6-acridinediamine. Fluorescent dye used as a local antiseptic and also as a biological stain. It intercalates into nucleic acids thereby inhibiting bacterial and viral replication.
acriflavine stain	3,6-Diamino-10-methylacridinium chloride mixt. with 3,6-acridinediamine. Fluorescent dye used as a local antiseptic and also as a biological stain. It intercalates into nucleic acids thereby inhibiting bacterial and viral replication.
antiinfective	Substances that prevent infectious agents or organisms from spreading or kill infectious agents in order to prevent the spread of infection.
disinfectants	Substances used on inanimate objects that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. Disinfectants are classed as complete, destroying SPORES as well as vegetative forms of microorganisms, or incomplete, destroying only vegetative forms of the organisms. They are distinguished from ANTISEPTICS, which are local anti-infective agents used on humans and other animals. (From Hawley's Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 11th ed)
antiseptic agent	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
product containing acriflavine	3,6-Diamino-10-methylacridinium chloride mixt. with 3,6-acridinediamine. Fluorescent dye used as a local antiseptic and also as a biological stain. It intercalates into nucleic acids thereby inhibiting bacterial and viral replication.
intercalating agent	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
fluorescent agents	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
intercalative compound	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
intercalating agents	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
disinfectant	Substances used on inanimate objects that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. Disinfectants are classed as complete, destroying SPORES as well as vegetative forms of microorganisms, or incomplete, destroying only vegetative forms of the organisms. They are distinguished from ANTISEPTICS, which are local anti-infective agents used on humans and other animals. (From Hawley's Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 11th ed)
heterocyclic compound	Cyclic compounds that include atoms other than carbon in their ring structure.
fluorescent dye	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
exophthalmos	Abnormal protrusion of both eyes; may be caused by endocrine gland malfunction, malignancy, injury, or paralysis of the extrinsic muscles of the eye.
hydronephrosis	Abnormal enlargement or swelling of a KIDNEY due to dilation of the KIDNEY CALICES and the KIDNEY PELVIS. It is often associated with obstruction of the URETER or chronic kidney diseases that prevents normal drainage of urine into the URINARY BLADDER.
unspecified strabismus	Misalignment of the visual axes of the eyes. In comitant strabismus the degree of ocular misalignment does not vary with the direction of gaze. In noncomitant strabismus the degree of misalignment varies depending on direction of gaze or which eye is fixating on the target. (Miller, Walsh & Hoyt's Clinical Neuro-Ophthalmology, 4th ed, p641)
delayed eruption of teeth	Delayed tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD beyond the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428, PMID:31468724]
delayed cranial suture closure	Infants normally have two fontanels at birth, the diamond-shaped anterior fontanelle at the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures, and the posterior fontanelle at the intersection of the occipital and parietal bones. The posterior fontanelle usually closes by the 8th week of life, and the anterior fontanel closes by the 18th month of life on average. This term applies if there is delay of closure of the fontanelles beyond the normal age. [HPO:probinson]
type i arnold-chiari malformation	Arnold-Chiari type I malformation refers to a relatively mild degree of herniation of the posteroinferior region of the cerebellum (the cerebellar tonsils) into the cervical canal with little or no displacement of the fourth ventricle. [HPO:curators]
atresia of vagina	Congenital occlusion of the vagina or adhesion of the walls of the vagina causing occlusion. [HPO:probinson]
depressed bridge of nose	Posterior positioning of the nasal root in relation to the overall facial profile for age. [PMID:19152422]
acrocephalosyndactyly type i	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
flat facial shape	Absence of concavity or convexity of the face when viewed in profile. [PMID:19125436]
coronal craniosynostosis	Premature closure of the coronal suture of skull. [HPO:probinson]
acs i	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
anomalous tracheal cartilage	An abnormality of the C-shaped rings of hyaline cartilage, normally 16 to 20 in number, that occupy the anterior two-thirds of the circumference of the trachea (the posterior portion of the ring is completed by fibrous and smooth muscle tissue). []
uvula; bifid	Uvula separated into two parts most easily seen at the tip. [PMID:19125428]
heritable connective tissue disorder	An inherited genetic disorder that affects the connective tissues. Representative examples include Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Marfan syndrome.
set of cranial sutures	A type of fibrous joint between bones of the head.
skull	The SKELETON of the HEAD including the FACIAL BONES and the bones enclosing the BRAIN.
congenital premature fusion	Fusion, occlusion, or loss of patency occurring before the usual or proper time.
digital	A finger or toe in human beings or corresponding part in other vertebrates.
digit	A finger or toe in human beings or corresponding part in other vertebrates.
type i acrocephalosyndactylies	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
suture of skull	A type of fibrous joint between bones of the head.
cranium bone	The SKELETON of the HEAD including the FACIAL BONES and the bones enclosing the BRAIN.
syndactylic oxycephalies	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
premature closure	Fusion, occlusion, or loss of patency occurring before the usual or proper time.
digits	A finger or toe in human beings or corresponding part in other vertebrates.
ankylosis of joint	Fixation and immobility of a joint.
symphalangy	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the webbing between adjacent fingers or toes. Syndactylies are classified as complete or incomplete by the degree of joining. Syndactylies can also be simple or complex. Simple syndactyly indicates joining of only skin or soft tissue; complex syndactyly marks joining of bony elements.
cranial sutures set	A type of fibrous joint between bones of the head.
cranial suture	A type of fibrous joint between bones of the head.
skull suture	A type of fibrous joint between bones of the head.
cranial sutures	A type of fibrous joint between bones of the head.
apert	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
of skull suture	A type of fibrous joint between bones of the head.
closure; premature	Fusion, occlusion, or loss of patency occurring before the usual or proper time.
head structure	The upper part of the human body, or the front or upper part of the body of an animal, typically separated from the rest of the body by a neck, and containing the brain, mouth, and sense organs.
cranial	The SKELETON of the HEAD including the FACIAL BONES and the bones enclosing the BRAIN.
digit structure	A finger or toe in human beings or corresponding part in other vertebrates.
acrodermatitis	Inflammation involving the skin of the extremities, especially the hands and feet. Several forms are known, some idiopathic and some hereditary. The infantile form is called Gianotti-Crosti syndrome.
inflammation of skin	Any inflammation of the skin.
dermatitis	Any inflammation of the skin.
dermatitis nos	Any inflammation of the skin.
inflammation of the skin	Any inflammation of the skin.
skin inflammation nos	Any inflammation of the skin.
eczema: [discoid] or [nos]	A pruritic papulovesicular dermatitis occurring as a reaction to many endogenous and exogenous agents (Dorland, 27th ed).
inflammatory finding	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
papulovesicular eruption	An acute onset rash characterized by by multiple vesicles, which are circumscribed, fluid-containing, epidermal elevations with a diameter less than 10mm at the widest point, and by multiple papules, which are circumscribed, solid epidermal elevations with no visible fluid with a diameter less than 10mm at the widest point. [PMID:32579185]
skin of part of limb	The integumentary covering of the upper and lower extremities.
skin structure of extremity	The integumentary covering of the upper and lower extremities.
venous dermatitis	Stasis dermatitis commonly occurs in older age. It is caused by venous hypertension resulting from retrograde flow due to incompetent venous valves, valve destruction, or obstruction of the venous system. Further tissue changes arise from an inflammatory process mediated by metalloproteinases, which are up-regulated by ferric ion from extravasated red blood cells. Stasis dermatitis presents initially as poorly demarcated erythematous plaques of the lower legs bilaterally, classically involving the medial malleolus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:28063094]
nail bed inflammation	An inflammatory reaction involving the folds of the skin surrounding the fingernail. It is characterized by acute or chronic purulent, tender, and painful swellings of the tissues around the nail, caused by an abscess of the nail fold. The pathogenic yeast causing paronychia is most frequently Candida albicans. Saprophytic fungi may also be involved. The causative bacteria are usually Staphylococcus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, or Streptococcus. (Andrews' Diseases of the Skin, 8th ed, p271)
skin inflammation	The presence of inflammation of the skin. That is, an abnormality of the skin resulting from the local accumulation of fluid, plasma proteins, and leukocytes. [HPO:probinson]
extremity	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with a complete set of bones of the appendicular skeleton, it is partially surrounded by skin of limb. Examples: There are only four instances, right upper and lower limbs and left upper and lower limbs.
rash papulovesicular	An acute onset rash characterized by by multiple vesicles, which are circumscribed, fluid-containing, epidermal elevations with a diameter less than 10mm at the widest point, and by multiple papules, which are circumscribed, solid epidermal elevations with no visible fluid with a diameter less than 10mm at the widest point. [PMID:32579185]
skin of limb	The integumentary covering of the upper and lower extremities.
allergic contact dermatitis	A contact dermatitis due to allergic sensitization to various substances. These substances subsequently produce inflammatory reactions in the skin of those who have acquired hypersensitivity to them as a result of prior exposure.
swifts disease	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
swift disease	A rare intoxication affecting children, most commonly characterized by erythema of the hands, feet and nose, edematous, painful, pink to red, desquamating fingers and toes, bluish, cold and wet extremities, excessive sweating, irritability, photophobia, muscle weakness, diffuse hypotonia, paresthesia, hypertension and tachycardia, due to elemental, organic or inorganic mercury exposure. Additional manifestations include alopecia, loss of appetite, excessive salivation with red and swollen gums, tooth and nail loss, and insomnia.
acrodynia caused by mercury poisoning	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
swift feer disease	A rare intoxication affecting children, most commonly characterized by erythema of the hands, feet and nose, edematous, painful, pink to red, desquamating fingers and toes, bluish, cold and wet extremities, excessive sweating, irritability, photophobia, muscle weakness, diffuse hypotonia, paresthesia, hypertension and tachycardia, due to elemental, organic or inorganic mercury exposure. Additional manifestations include alopecia, loss of appetite, excessive salivation with red and swollen gums, tooth and nail loss, and insomnia.
swifts dis	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
erythroedema polyneuritis	A rare intoxication affecting children, most commonly characterized by erythema of the hands, feet and nose, edematous, painful, pink to red, desquamating fingers and toes, bluish, cold and wet extremities, excessive sweating, irritability, photophobia, muscle weakness, diffuse hypotonia, paresthesia, hypertension and tachycardia, due to elemental, organic or inorganic mercury exposure. Additional manifestations include alopecia, loss of appetite, excessive salivation with red and swollen gums, tooth and nail loss, and insomnia.
swift-feer disease	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
pink dis	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
chronic childhood mercurialisms	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
limb pain	A disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the upper or lower extremities.
chronic childhood mercurialism	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
skin disease	Diseases involving the DERMIS or EPIDERMIS.
acrodynia	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
swift's disease	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
mercury	A silver metallic element that exists as a liquid at room temperature. It has the atomic symbol Hg (from hydrargyrum, liquid silver), atomic number 80, and atomic weight 200.59. Mercury is used in many industrial applications and its salts have been employed therapeutically as purgatives, antisyphilitics, disinfectants, and astringents. It can be absorbed through the skin and mucous membranes which leads to MERCURY POISONING. Because of its toxicity, the clinical use of mercury and mercurials is diminishing.
feer dis	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
mercurialism	Poisoning that results from chronic or acute ingestion, injection, inhalation, or skin absorption of MERCURY or MERCURY COMPOUNDS.
feers dis	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
xxx>nerve	Organ subdivision that primarily consists of nerve fibers aggregated into fasciculi by connective tissue to form elongated, cable-like structures that form a tree; together with other nerves (organ part) and nerve plexuses it constitutes the nerve (organ). Examples: radial nerve, sciatic nerve, vagus, chorda tympani, phrenic nerve, pelvic splanchnic nerve.
peripheral nerve	Subdivision of peripheral nervous system which is a tree whose trunk is a branch of a somatic nerve plexus (cervical, brachial or lumbosacral); it has shared parts with the somatic nerves that contribute to its parent plexus. Examples: phrenic nerve, radial nerve, ilioinguinal nerve, sciatic nerve.
toxic substance	Substances which, when ingested, inhaled, or absorbed, or when applied to, injected into, or developed within the body in relatively small amounts may, by their chemical action, cause damage to structure or disturbance of function. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
skin coloring	The hue or shade of an individual's skin resulting from pigmentation, sun exposure, inflammation, or disease processes
acrodynia due to mercury	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
hydrargyrism	Poisoning that results from chronic or acute ingestion, injection, inhalation, or skin absorption of MERCURY or MERCURY COMPOUNDS.
hydrargyria	Poisoning that results from chronic or acute ingestion, injection, inhalation, or skin absorption of MERCURY or MERCURY COMPOUNDS.
mercury poisoning	Poisoning that results from chronic or acute ingestion, injection, inhalation, or skin absorption of MERCURY or MERCURY COMPOUNDS.
pink disease	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
poisoning mercury	Poisoning that results from chronic or acute ingestion, injection, inhalation, or skin absorption of MERCURY or MERCURY COMPOUNDS.
pains skin	A disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in the skin.
acrodynic erythema	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
disease pink	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
nerve	Organ subdivision that primarily consists of nerve fibers aggregated into fasciculi by connective tissue to form elongated, cable-like structures that form a tree; together with other nerves (organ part) and nerve plexuses it constitutes the nerve (organ). Examples: radial nerve, sciatic nerve, vagus, chorda tympani, phrenic nerve, pelvic splanchnic nerve.
selter's disease	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
poisons	Substances which, when ingested, inhaled, or absorbed, or when applied to, injected into, or developed within the body in relatively small amounts may, by their chemical action, cause damage to structure or disturbance of function. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
skin color	The hue or shade of an individual's skin resulting from pigmentation, sun exposure, inflammation, or disease processes
feer's disease	A condition seen primarily in childhood, most often resulting from chronic exposure to MERCURY COMPOUNDS which may result in encephalopathy and POLYNEUROPATHY. Clinical features include pain, swelling and pinkish discoloration of the fingers and toes, weakness in the extremities, extreme irritability, HYPERESTHESIA, and alterations in level of consciousness. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p603)
integumental system	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
infantile poisoning caused by mercury	A rare intoxication affecting children, most commonly characterized by erythema of the hands, feet and nose, edematous, painful, pink to red, desquamating fingers and toes, bluish, cold and wet extremities, excessive sweating, irritability, photophobia, muscle weakness, diffuse hypotonia, paresthesia, hypertension and tachycardia, due to elemental, organic or inorganic mercury exposure. Additional manifestations include alopecia, loss of appetite, excessive salivation with red and swollen gums, tooth and nail loss, and insomnia.
infantile mercury intoxication	A rare intoxication affecting children, most commonly characterized by erythema of the hands, feet and nose, edematous, painful, pink to red, desquamating fingers and toes, bluish, cold and wet extremities, excessive sweating, irritability, photophobia, muscle weakness, diffuse hypotonia, paresthesia, hypertension and tachycardia, due to elemental, organic or inorganic mercury exposure. Additional manifestations include alopecia, loss of appetite, excessive salivation with red and swollen gums, tooth and nail loss, and insomnia.
infantile mercury poisoning	A rare intoxication affecting children, most commonly characterized by erythema of the hands, feet and nose, edematous, painful, pink to red, desquamating fingers and toes, bluish, cold and wet extremities, excessive sweating, irritability, photophobia, muscle weakness, diffuse hypotonia, paresthesia, hypertension and tachycardia, due to elemental, organic or inorganic mercury exposure. Additional manifestations include alopecia, loss of appetite, excessive salivation with red and swollen gums, tooth and nail loss, and insomnia.
acrokeratosis	Overgrowth of the stratum corneum characterized by flesh-coloured or slightly pigmented smooth or warty papules on the upper surface of hands and feet. [HPO:skoehler]
nodules skin	Morphologically similar to a papule, but greater than either 10mm in both width and depth, and most frequently centered in the dermis or subcutaneous fat. [HPO:skoehler]
akv - acrokeratosis verruciformis	A rare genetic skin keratinization disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. It is characterized by numerous flesh-colored warty papules on the back of the hands, medial aspect of the feet, knees, and elbows.
hopf disease	A rare genetic skin keratinization disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. It is characterized by numerous flesh-colored warty papules on the back of the hands, medial aspect of the feet, knees, and elbows.
exanthem	Diseases in which skin eruptions or rashes are a prominent manifestation. Classically, six such diseases were described with similar rashes; they were numbered in the order in which they were reported. Only the fourth (Duke's disease), fifth (ERYTHEMA INFECTIOSUM), and sixth (EXANTHEMA SUBITUM) numeric designations survive as occasional synonyms in current terminology.
acral keratosis	Overgrowth of the stratum corneum characterized by flesh-coloured or slightly pigmented smooth or warty papules on the upper surface of hands and feet. [HPO:skoehler]
keratosis	Any horny growth such as a wart or callus.
keratinization	The process in which the cytoplasm of the outermost cells of the vertebrate epidermis is replaced by keratin. Keratinization occurs in the stratum corneum, feathers, hair, claws, nails, hooves, and horns. [GOC:dph, GOC:ebc, GOC:sdb_2009, GOC:tb]
skins	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
skin nos	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
acrylaldehyde	Unsaturated three-carbon aldehyde.
acromegalia	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excessive HUMAN GROWTH HORMONE in adults. It is characterized by bony enlargement of the FACE; lower jaw (PROGNATHISM); hands; FEET; HEAD; and THORAX. The most common etiology is a GROWTH HORMONE-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch36, pp79-80)
octreotide	A potent, long-acting synthetic SOMATOSTATIN octapeptide analog that inhibits secretion of GROWTH HORMONE and is used to treat hormone-secreting tumors; DIABETES MELLITUS; HYPOTENSION, ORTHOSTATIC; HYPERINSULINISM; hypergastrinemia; and small bowel fistula.
acromegaly	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excessive HUMAN GROWTH HORMONE in adults. It is characterized by bony enlargement of the FACE; lower jaw (PROGNATHISM); hands; FEET; HEAD; and THORAX. The most common etiology is a GROWTH HORMONE-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch36, pp79-80)
lanreotida	A synthetic cyclic octapeptide analogue of somatostatin. Lanreotide binds to somatostatin receptors (SSTR), specifically SSTR-2 and also to SSTR-5 with a lesser affinity. However, compare with octreotide, this agent is less potent in inhibiting the release of growth hormone from the pituitary gland. Furthermore, lanreotide has an acute effect on decreasing circulating total and free insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-I). This agent is usually given as a prolonged-release microparticle or Autogel formulation for the treatment of acromegaly and to relieve the symptoms of neuroendocrine tumors.
bromocriptine mesylate	The mesylate salt of bromocriptine, a semisynthetic ergot alkaloid with dopaminergic, antidyskinetic, and antiprolactinemic activities. Bromocriptine selectively binds to and activates postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptors in the corpus striatum of the central nervous system (CNS). Activation of these D2 receptors activate inhibitory G-proteins, which inhibit adenylyl cyclase, preventing signal transduction mediated via cAMP and resulting in the inhibition of neurotransmission and an antidyskinetic effect. This agent also stimulates dopamine D2 receptors in the anterior pituitary gland, which results in the inhibition of prolactin secretion and lactation and may inhibit the proliferation of prolactin-dependent breast cancer cells.
lanreotide acetate	The acetate salt of a synthetic cyclic octapeptide analogue of somatostatin. Lanreotide binds to somatostatin receptors (SSTR), specifically SSTR-2 and also to SSTR-5 with a lesser affinity. However, compare with octreotide, this agent is less potent in inhibiting the release of growth hormone from the pituitary gland. Furthermore, lanreotide has an acute effect on decreasing circulating total and free insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-I). This agent is usually given as a prolonged-release microparticle or Autogel formulation for the treatment of acromegaly and to relieve the symptoms of neuroendocrine tumors.
growth hormone excess	Overproduction of growth hormone, a protein-based peptide that stimulates growth, cell reproduction, and cell regeneration.
toriello syndrome	A rare variant of frontonasal dysplasia characterized by distinct craniofacial (large fontanelle, hypertelorism, bifid nasal tip, nasal clefting, brachycephaly, median cleft face, carp-shaped mouth), brain (interhemispheric lipoma, agenesis of the corpus callosum), and limb (tibial hypoplasia/aplasia, club foot, symmetric preaxial polydactyly of the feet and bilateral clubbed and thickened nail malformations as well as intellectual disability.
growth hormone hypersecretion syndrome	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excessive HUMAN GROWTH HORMONE in adults. It is characterized by bony enlargement of the FACE; lower jaw (PROGNATHISM); hands; FEET; HEAD; and THORAX. The most common etiology is a GROWTH HORMONE-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch36, pp79-80)
marie disease	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excessive HUMAN GROWTH HORMONE in adults. It is characterized by bony enlargement of the FACE; lower jaw (PROGNATHISM); hands; FEET; HEAD; and THORAX. The most common etiology is a GROWTH HORMONE-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch36, pp79-80)
ctrp disease terminology	A set of terminology that includes the diseases and neoplastic processes used in NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
pituitary gland mixed gangliocytoma-adenoma	A pituitary gland neoplasm composed of mature ganglionic cells admixed with pituitary adenoma cells. The adenomatous component is positive for growth hormone in the great majority of tumors, with other cases found to be positive for prolactin and ACTH. (WHO 2017)
anterior lobe of pituitary gland	The anterior glandular lobe of the pituitary gland, also known as the adenohypophysis. It secretes the ADENOHYPOPHYSEAL HORMONES that regulate vital functions such as GROWTH; METABOLISM; and REPRODUCTION.
acromioclavicular joint	The gliding joint formed by the outer extremity of the CLAVICLE and the inner margin of the ACROMION PROCESS of the SCAPULA.
shoulder injuries and disorders	<p>Your shoulder joint is composed of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone). Your shoulders are the most movable joints in your body. They can also be unstable because the ball of the upper arm is larger than the shoulder socket that holds it. To remain in a stable or normal position, the shoulder must be anchored by muscles, tendons, and ligaments.</p> <p>Because your shoulder can be unstable, it can be easily injured. Common problems include</p> <ul> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/sprainsandstrains.html">Sprains and strains</a></li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/dislocatedshoulder.html">Dislocations</a></li> <li>Separations</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/tendinitis.html">Tendinitis</a></li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/bursitis.html">Bursitis</a></li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/rotatorcuffinjuries.html">Torn rotator cuffs</a></li> <li>Frozen shoulder</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/fractures.html">Fractures</a> (broken bones)</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/arthritis.html">Arthritis</a></li> </ul> <p>Health care providers diagnose shoulder problems by using your medical history, a physical exam, and imaging tests.</p> <p>Often, the first treatment for shoulder problems is RICE. This stands for Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation. Other treatments include exercise and medicines to reduce pain and swelling. If those don't work, you may need surgery.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases</p>
cingulum pectorale	Subdivision of skeletal system of upper limb, each instance of which has as its direct parts some instance of skeleton of pectoral girdle, acromioclavicualr joint, coraco-acromial joint, glenohumeral joint, inferior transverse scapular ligament sternoclavicular joint and superior transverse scapular ligament.
structure of shoulder region	Part of the body in humans and primates where the arms connect to the trunk. The shoulder has five joints; ACROMIOCLAVICULAR joint, CORACOCLAVICULAR joint, GLENOHUMERAL joint, scapulathoracic joint, and STERNOCLAVICULAR joint.
joint acromioclavicular	The gliding joint formed by the outer extremity of the CLAVICLE and the inner margin of the ACROMION PROCESS of the SCAPULA.
humeral joint	The articulation between the head of the HUMERUS and the glenoid cavity of the SCAPULA.
shoulder joint	The articulation between the head of the HUMERUS and the glenoid cavity of the SCAPULA.
shoulder girdle structure	Subdivision of free upper limb, which is the proximal segment of an upper limb and links the free upper limb to the trunk; it is demarcated by the plane of the surface of the glenoid fossa from the free upper limb; together with the free upper limb, it constitutes the upper limb. Examples: There are only two instances, right and left pectoral girdles.
acromioclavicular joints	The gliding joint formed by the outer extremity of the CLAVICLE and the inner margin of the ACROMION PROCESS of the SCAPULA.
joint structure of shoulder region	The articulation between the head of the HUMERUS and the glenoid cavity of the SCAPULA.
sdtm-loc	Terminology codelist used with Anatomical Locations within the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Study Data Tabulation Model.
acromion	The lateral extension of the spine of the SCAPULA and the highest point of the SHOULDER.
chest>scapula	Also called the shoulder blade, it is a flat triangular bone, a pair of which form the back part of the shoulder girdle.
bones scapula	Also called the shoulder blade, it is a flat triangular bone, a pair of which form the back part of the shoulder girdle.
shoulder blade	Also called the shoulder blade, it is a flat triangular bone, a pair of which form the back part of the shoulder girdle.
impingement syndrome shoulder	Compression of the ROTATOR CUFF tendons and subacromial bursa between the HUMERAL HEAD and the ACROMION of the SCAPULA. This condition is associated with subacromial BURSITIS, as well as rotator cuff (largely supraspinatus) and bicipital tendon INFLAMMATION.
shoulder impingement	Compression of the ROTATOR CUFF tendons and subacromial bursa between the HUMERAL HEAD and the ACROMION of the SCAPULA. This condition is associated with subacromial BURSITIS, as well as rotator cuff (largely supraspinatus) and bicipital tendon INFLAMMATION.
skeletal system part	Any component of the framework, including bone and cartilage, that supports and/or protects the soft tissues of vertebrate animals.
clavicle bone	A bone on the ventral side of the shoulder girdle, which in humans is commonly called the collar bone.
acromion processes	The lateral extension of the spine of the SCAPULA and the highest point of the SHOULDER.
cdisc sdtm anatomical location terminology	Terminology codelist used with Anatomical Locations within the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Study Data Tabulation Model.
acronine	A pyrano-acridone alkaloid found in RUTACEAE plants.
antineopl agents phytogenic	Agents obtained from higher plants that have demonstrable cytostatic or antineoplastic activity.
acronycin	A pyrano-acridone alkaloid found in RUTACEAE plants.
antineopl botanic	Agents obtained from higher plants that have demonstrable cytostatic or antineoplastic activity.
acronycine	A pyrano-acridone alkaloid found in RUTACEAE plants.
botanical antineoplastics	Agents obtained from higher plants that have demonstrable cytostatic or antineoplastic activity.
dna adduct forming agent	An agent capable of attaching to DNA with a covent bond. DNA adduct forming agents cause disruption of DNA replication and mitosis.
acrosin	A trypsin-like enzyme of spermatozoa which is not inhibited by alpha 1 antitrypsin.
serine proteinase	Peptide hydrolases that contain at the active site a SERINE residue involved in catalysis.
proteolytic enzyme	Hydrolases that specifically cleave the peptide bonds found in PROTEINS and PEPTIDES. Examples of sub-subclasses for this group include EXOPEPTIDASES and ENDOPEPTIDASES.
serine protease-containing product	Peptide hydrolases that contain at the active site a SERINE residue involved in catalysis.
lysosome of male germ cell	The cap-like structure covering the anterior portion of SPERM HEAD. Acrosome, derived from LYSOSOMES, is a membrane-bound organelle that contains the required hydrolytic and proteolytic enzymes necessary for sperm penetration of the egg in FERTILIZATION.
membranous cytoplasmic organelle	A functional area or structure in a cell that is bounded by a lipid-containing membrane.
secretory granule	A small subcellular vesicle, surrounded by a membrane, that is formed from the Golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion. Secretory granules move towards the periphery of the cell and upon stimulation, their membranes fuse with the cell membrane, and their protein load is exteriorized. Processing of the contained protein may take place in secretory granules. [GOC:mah, ISBN:0198506732]
acrosome	The cap-like structure covering the anterior portion of SPERM HEAD. Acrosome, derived from LYSOSOMES, is a membrane-bound organelle that contains the required hydrolytic and proteolytic enzymes necessary for sperm penetration of the egg in FERTILIZATION.
acrosomal matrix	A structural framework, or 'dense core' at the interior of an acrosome. May regulate the distribution of hydrolases within the acrosome and their release during the acrosome reaction. [GOC:jl, PMID:8949900, PMID:9139729]
subcellular structure	An anatomical element found within cells or tissues that are smaller than cells and are at or below the size that can be resolved by light microscopy.
acrosomal cap	The cap-like structure covering the anterior portion of SPERM HEAD. Acrosome, derived from LYSOSOMES, is a membrane-bound organelle that contains the required hydrolytic and proteolytic enzymes necessary for sperm penetration of the egg in FERTILIZATION.
spermatids	Male germ cells derived from the haploid secondary SPERMATOCYTES. Without further division, spermatids undergo structural changes and give rise to SPERMATOZOA.
acrosomal granule	The cap-like structure covering the anterior portion of SPERM HEAD. Acrosome, derived from LYSOSOMES, is a membrane-bound organelle that contains the required hydrolytic and proteolytic enzymes necessary for sperm penetration of the egg in FERTILIZATION.
golgi	A stack of flattened vesicles that functions in posttranslational processing and sorting of proteins, receiving them from the rough ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM and directing them to secretory vesicles, LYSOSOMES, or the CELL MEMBRANE. The movement of proteins takes place by transfer vesicles that bud off from the rough endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi apparatus and fuse with the Golgi, lysosomes or cell membrane. (From Glick, Glossary of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 1990)
lysosoma	A class of morphologically heterogeneous cytoplasmic particles in animal and plant tissues characterized by their content of hydrolytic enzymes and the structure-linked latency of these enzymes. The intracellular functions of lysosomes depend on their lytic potential. The single unit membrane of the lysosome acts as a barrier between the enzymes enclosed in the lysosome and the external substrate. The activity of the enzymes contained in lysosomes is limited or nil unless the vesicle in which they are enclosed is ruptured or undergoes MEMBRANE FUSION. (From Rieger et al., Glossary of Genetics: Classical and Molecular, 5th ed).
golgi apparatus	A stack of flattened vesicles that functions in posttranslational processing and sorting of proteins, receiving them from the rough ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM and directing them to secretory vesicles, LYSOSOMES, or the CELL MEMBRANE. The movement of proteins takes place by transfer vesicles that bud off from the rough endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi apparatus and fuse with the Golgi, lysosomes or cell membrane. (From Glick, Glossary of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 1990)
acrylamides	Colorless, odorless crystals that are used extensively in research laboratories for the preparation of polyacrylamide gels for electrophoresis and in organic synthesis, and polymerization. Some of its polymers are used in sewage and wastewater treatment, permanent press fabrics, and as soil conditioning agents.
pyrotinib	An orally bioavailable, dual kinase inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR or HER-1) and the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (ErbB2 or HER-2), with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, pyrotinib binds to and inhibits both EGFR and HER2, which may result in the inhibition of tumor growth and angiogenesis, and tumor regression in EGFR/HER2-expressing tumor cells. EGFR and HER2 are receptor tyrosine kinases that are upregulated in various tumor cell types and play major roles in tumor cell proliferation and tumor vascularization.
rociletinib	An orally available small molecule, irreversible inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) with potential antineoplastic activity. Rociletinib binds to and inhibits mutant forms of EGFR, including T790M, thereby leading to cell death of resistant tumor cells. Compared to other EGFR inhibitors, CO-1686 inhibits T790M, a secondary acquired resistance mutation, as well as other mutant EGFRs and may have therapeutic benefits in tumors with T790M-mediated resistance to other EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. This agent shows minimal activity against wild-type EGFR, hence does not cause certain dose-limiting toxicities.
mereletinib	A third-generation, orally available, irreversible, mutant-selective, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor, with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, osimertinib covalently binds to and inhibits the activity of mutant forms of EGFR, including the T790M EGFR mutant, thereby preventing EGFR-mediated signaling. This may both induce cell death and inhibit tumor growth in EGFR-overexpressing tumor cells. EGFR, a receptor tyrosine kinase mutated in many tumor cell types, plays a key role in tumor cell proliferation and tumor vascularization. AZD9291 preferentially inhibits mutated forms of EGFR including T790M, a secondarily-acquired resistance mutation, and may have enhanced anti-tumor effects in tumors with T790M-mediated resistance when compared to other EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. As this agent is selective towards mutant forms of EGFR, its toxicity profile may be reduced when compared to non-selective EGFR inhibitors which also inhibit wild-type EGFR.
spebrutinib	An orally bioavailable, selective inhibitor of Bruton's agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase (BTK), with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon administration, spebrutinib targets and covalently binds to BTK, thereby preventing its activity. By irreversibly inhibiting BTK, administration of this agent may lead to an inhibition of B cell receptor (BCR) signaling and may inhibit cell proliferation of B-cell malignancies. BTK, a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase and member of the Tec family of kinases, plays an important role in B lymphocyte development, activation, signaling, proliferation and survival.
acrylamide	colorless, odorless, highly water soluble vinyl monomer formed from the hydration of acrylonitrile; primarily used in research laboratories for electrophoresis, chromatography, and electron microscopy and in the sewage and wastewater treatment industries.
acrylates	Derivatives of acrylic acid (the structural formula CH2=CHCO2H), including its salts and esters.
penberol	A derivative of bromoacrylic acid with cytostatic activity. Although the mechanism of action is unclear, penberol might inhibit tumor growth mediated through inhibition of the cell energetic metabolism.
eprosartan	A competitive and reversible angiotensin II receptor antagonist with anti-hypertensive property. Eprosartan blocks the binding of angiotensin II to the angiotensin (AT)1 receptor in vascular smooth muscle, thereby blocking the principal pressor action of angiotensin II on the renin-angiotensin system resulting in vascular dilatation. In addition, this agent blocks angiotensin II -induced stimulation of aldosterone synthesis and secretion by the adrenal cortex, cardiac contraction, renal resorption of sodium, activity of the sympathetic nervous system, and smooth muscle cell growth. Furthermore, eprosartan inhibits sympathetic norepinephrine production, thereby further reducing blood pressure.
acrylic resin	Polymers of high molecular weight which are derived from acrylic acid, methacrylic acid or other related compounds and are capable of being molded and then hardened to form useful components.
triad resin	a chemical substance
acrylic resins	Polymers of high molecular weight which are derived from acrylic acid, methacrylic acid or other related compounds and are capable of being molded and then hardened to form useful components.
tris-acryl gelatin microspheres	An embolic particle composed of water-soluble, compressible, nonabsorbable microspheres composed of tris-acryl gelatin, with potential use for embolization. Upon administration, the tris-acryl gelatin microspheres (TAGM) serve as an embolic agent before surgery for highly vascularized areas, such as those seen in certain tumors, by penetrating into the blood vessel system and blocking blood flow. These microspheres may be used to encapsulate various therapeutic agents; drug-loaded microspheres can then be used as drug delivery vehicles during embolization of tumor vasculature.
vinylcyanide	A highly poisonous compound used widely in the manufacture of plastics, adhesives and synthetic rubber.
acrylonitrile	A highly poisonous compound used widely in the manufacture of plastics, adhesives and synthetic rubber.
oncogenic substance	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
cyanoethylene	A highly poisonous compound used widely in the manufacture of plastics, adhesives and synthetic rubber.
vinyl cyanide	A highly poisonous compound used widely in the manufacture of plastics, adhesives and synthetic rubber.
nitriles	Organic compounds containing the -CN radical. The concept is distinguished from CYANIDES, which denotes inorganic salts of HYDROGEN CYANIDE.
chemical carcinogen	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
acth; ectopic syndrome	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
ectopic acth syndrome	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
ectopic acth syndromes	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
ectopic acth secretion	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
adrenal neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
neoplastic syndrome	A broad classification for disorders in which the development of neoplasms typically occur in association with a characteristic set of signs or symptoms. These disorders may be inherited or acquired.
ectopic acth secretion syndrome	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
ng - neoplastic growth	A broad classification for disorders in which the development of neoplasms typically occur in association with a characteristic set of signs or symptoms. These disorders may be inherited or acquired.
adrenal glands	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
ectopic corticotropin syndrome	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
neoplastic disease	A broad classification for disorders in which the development of neoplasms typically occur in association with a characteristic set of signs or symptoms. These disorders may be inherited or acquired.
endocrine	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the endocrine system.
actin-binding protein	diverse family of cytoskeletal proteins which bind actin, thereby stabilizing or destabilizing microfilaments, anchoring them to other cell structures, or subserving intracellular translocation and motility.
filamin	A family of crosslinking filament proteins encoded by distinct FLN genes. Filamins are involved in cell adhesion, spreading, and migration, acting as scaffolds for over 90 binding partners including channels, receptors, intracellular signaling molecules and transcription factors. Due to the range of molecular interactions, mutations in FLN genes result in anomalies with moderate to lethal consequences.
actin-binding proteins	diverse family of cytoskeletal proteins which bind actin, thereby stabilizing or destabilizing microfilaments, anchoring them to other cell structures, or subserving intracellular translocation and motility.
profilin	A family of low molecular weight proteins that bind ACTIN and control actin polymerization. They are found in eukaryotes and are ubiquitously expressed.
tensin	A family of multidomain microfilament proteins that bind ACTIN FILAMENTS and INTEGRINS at FOCAL ADHESIONS. They generally consist of an N-terminal domain with homology to PHOSPHOTYROSINE PHOSPHATASE, a C2 DOMAIN; unique central regions rich in PROLINE; ALANINE; GLYCINE; and SERINE; an SH2 DOMAIN; and a C-terminal phosphotyrosine-binding region. They are involved in CELL MIGRATION; CELL ADHESION; SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION; and reorganization of the CYTOSKELETON.
tropomyosin	A protein found in the thin filaments of muscle fibers. It inhibits contraction of the muscle unless its position is modified by TROPONIN.
plakoglobin	A multi-functional catenin that is highly homologous to BETA CATENIN. Gamma catenin binds CADHERINS and helps link their cytoplasmic tails to ACTIN in the CYTOSKELETON via ALPHA CATENIN. It is also found in DESMOSOMES where it mediates the link between DESMOSOMAL CADHERINS and DESMOPLAKIN.
actin binding protein	diverse family of cytoskeletal proteins which bind actin, thereby stabilizing or destabilizing microfilaments, anchoring them to other cell structures, or subserving intracellular translocation and motility.
filamins	A family of crosslinking filament proteins encoded by distinct FLN genes. Filamins are involved in cell adhesion, spreading, and migration, acting as scaffolds for over 90 binding partners including channels, receptors, intracellular signaling molecules and transcription factors. Due to the range of molecular interactions, mutations in FLN genes result in anomalies with moderate to lethal consequences.
profilin proteins	A family of low molecular weight proteins that bind ACTIN and control actin polymerization. They are found in eukaryotes and are ubiquitously expressed.
dystrophin	A muscle protein localized in surface membranes which is the product of the Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy gene. Individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy usually lack dystrophin completely while those with Becker muscular dystrophy have dystrophin of an altered size. It shares features with other cytoskeletal proteins such as SPECTRIN and alpha-actinin but the precise function of dystrophin is not clear. One possible role might be to preserve the integrity and alignment of the plasma membrane to the myofibrils during muscle contraction and relaxation. MW 400 kDa.
actin binding proteins	diverse family of cytoskeletal proteins which bind actin, thereby stabilizing or destabilizing microfilaments, anchoring them to other cell structures, or subserving intracellular translocation and motility.
vinculin	A cytoskeletal protein associated with cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. The amino acid sequence of human vinculin has been determined. The protein consists of 1066 amino acid residues and its gene has been assigned to chromosome 10.
thymosins	Thymosin. A family of heat-stable, polypeptide hormones secreted by the thymus gland. Their biological activities include lymphocytopoiesis, restoration of immunological competence and enhancement of expression of T-cell characteristics and function. They have therapeutic potential in patients having primary or secondary immunodeficiency diseases, cancer or diseases related to aging.
gamma-catenin	A multi-functional catenin that is highly homologous to BETA CATENIN. Gamma catenin binds CADHERINS and helps link their cytoplasmic tails to ACTIN in the CYTOSKELETON via ALPHA CATENIN. It is also found in DESMOSOMES where it mediates the link between DESMOSOMAL CADHERINS and DESMOPLAKIN.
binding protein	general term for class of proteins whose most important function appears to be binding of some ligand for soluability, transport, bioactivity regulation, or other nonenzymatic process; prefer NTs whenever possible.
cytoskeletal protein	Major constituent of the cytoskeleton found in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells. They form a flexible framework for the cell, provide attachment points for organelles and formed bodies, and make communication between parts of the cell possible.
calponin	actin binding protein involved in the regulation of smooth muscle contraction.
delta catenins	A catenin protein with 10 armadillo repeats involved in the regulation of cell adhesion and tissue morphogenesis. Catenin delta-1 (CTNND1) is expressed in vascular endothelium, keratinocytes and melanocytes, and catenin delta-2 (CTNND2) is expressed in brain.
protein apxl	Protein Shroom2 (1616 aa, ~176 kDa) is encoded by the human SHROOM2 gene. This protein may play a role in the regulation of cell spreading.
ligand binding protein gene	Ligand Binding Protein Genes encode Ligand Binding Proteins, a large class of diverse proteins for which a major function appears to be (typically high affinity) binding of some ligand for solubility, transport, bioactivity regulation, or other nonenzymatic process. Ligand interaction often alters protein molecular conformation and function. (NCI)
afadin	Afadin (1824 aa, ~207 kDa) is encoded by the human AFDN gene. This protein is involved in the formation of adherens junctions.
ligand binding	Ligand Binding is the tight and specific (high affinity) interaction between a small molecule (typically) and a macromolecule (usually protein) that ordinarily results in modification of its function, e.g., antigen-antibody binding, hormone- or neurotransmitter-receptor binding.
singed-like protein	Fascin (493 aa, ~55 kDa) is encoded by the human FSCN1 gene. This protein is involved in the formation of actin filaments.
unconventional myosin-if	Unconventional myosin-If (1098 aa, ~125 kDa) is encoded by the human MYO1F gene. This protein plays a role in the transport of intracellular components.
anillin	Anillin (1124 aa, ~124 kDa) is encoded by the human ANLN gene. This protein plays a role in in maintaining the structural integrity of the cleavage furrow and in the completion of cell cleavage.
amphiphysin ii	Encoded as ten alternate splicing variant isoforms by human BIN1 Gene, ubiquitously expressed nucleocytoplasmic adaptor protein Bridging Integrator 1 exhibits differential binding to dynamin, synaptojanin (via sh3 domain), alpha-adaptin, endophilin, clathrin, and MYC protein. BIN1 interacts with the MYC N-transactivation domain in a manner requiring the conserved MYC box regions 1 and 2. Some isoforms may play a role in protein targeting during synaptic vesicle endocytosis. BIN1 contains a BAR domain and an SH3 domain and may be phosphorylated by protein kinase C. (NCI)
acting out	Expressing unconscious emotional conflicts or feelings, often of hostility or love, through overt behavior.
defense mechanism	Unconscious process used by an individual or a group of individuals in order to cope with impulses, feelings or ideas which are not acceptable at their conscious level; various types include reaction formation, projection and self reversal.
actinium	A trivalent radioactive element and the prototypical member of the actinide family. It has the atomic symbol Ac, and atomic number 89. Its principal isotope is 227 and it decays primarily by beta-emission.
actinide	elements of atomic munber 89 and higher; all are radioactive.
actinoid metals	elements of atomic munber 89 and higher; all are radioactive.
chemical elements	Substances that comprise all matter. Each element is made up of atoms that are identical in number of electrons and protons and in nuclear charge but may differ in mass or number of neutrons.
challenge agent characterization	A trivalent radioactive element and the prototypical member of the actinide family. It has the atomic symbol Ac, and atomic number 89. Its principal isotope is 227 and it decays primarily by beta-emission.
domain	A collection of logically-related observations with a topic-specific commonality about the subjects in a trial, used in the regulatory submission process. The logic of the relationship may relate to the scientific subject matter of the data, or to its role in the trial. Typically, each domain is represented by a dataset, but it is possible to have information relevant to the same topicality spread among multiple datasets. (CDISC Glossary)
actinio	A trivalent radioactive element and the prototypical member of the actinide family. It has the atomic symbol Ac, and atomic number 89. Its principal isotope is 227 and it decays primarily by beta-emission.
cdisc send domain abbreviation terminology	Terminology associated with the SEND domain abbreviation codelist of the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Standard for the Exchange of Non-clinical Data (SEND).
element	Substances that comprise all matter. Each element is made up of atoms that are identical in number of electrons and protons and in nuclear charge but may differ in mass or number of neutrons.
actinobacillus	genus of Pasteurellaceae described as gram negative, nonsporeforming, nonmotile, facultative anaerobes; most members are found both as pathogens and commensal organisms in the respiratory, alimentary, and genital tracts of animals.
actinobacillus lignieresi	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinobacillus ligniersii.
actinobacillus species	genus of Pasteurellaceae described as gram negative, nonsporeforming, nonmotile, facultative anaerobes; most members are found both as pathogens and commensal organisms in the respiratory, alimentary, and genital tracts of animals.
bacillus equirulis	Rod gramnegativních bakterií z čeledi ACTINOBACILLUS, je významným patogenem pro hříbata i dospělé koně a selata.
actinobacillus ureae	A species of anaerobic, Gram negative, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Proteobacteria. This bacteria is oxidase and catalase positive, reduces nitrate, hydrolyzes urea and is indole negative. A. ureae is found rarely as a commensal organism of the human respiratory tract and may cause respiratory tract infections in humans.
pasteurellaceae	gram negative coccoid or rigid rod-shaped bacteria which are facultatively anaerobic and nonmotile.
infection; actinobacillus	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOBACILLUS.
bacterium viscosum equi	Rod gramnegativních bakterií z čeledi ACTINOBACILLUS, je významným patogenem pro hříbata i dospělé koně a selata.
actinobacillus suis	Druh gramnegativních bakterií rodu ACTINOBACILLUS. Je to hlavně patogen prasat, ale může infikovat i koně.
actinobacillus seminis	Druh gramnegativních bakterií rodu ACTINOBACILLUS, který způsobuje EPIDIDYMITIDU u ovcí.
actinobacillus; infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOBACILLUS.
actinobacillus infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOBACILLUS.
bacterial disease	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
actinobacillus infections	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOBACILLUS.
gram-negative bacterial infection	Infections caused by bacteria that show up as pink (negative) when treated by the gram-staining method.
infection; gram-negative bacilli	Infections caused by bacteria that show up as pink (negative) when treated by the gram-staining method.
infect actinobacillus	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOBACILLUS.
gram rod negative	Any rod-shaped bacteria that contains low levels of peptidoglycan in its cell wall and stains pink with the Gram staining technique.
gram negative bacterial infections	Infections caused by bacteria that show up as pink (negative) when treated by the gram-staining method.
actinomyces genus	genus of the family Actinomycetaceae of the order Actinomycetales; a genus of gram positive, rod shaped bacteria whose organisms are nonmotile; filaments that may be present in certain species are either straight or wavy and may have swollen or clubbed heads.
actinomyces israelii	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria hydrolyzes esculin, produces acid from xylose and is urease and catalase negative. A. israelii is found in the flora of the human oral and nasopharyngeal tract and in animals and is the most frequent cause of actinomycosis in humans.
discomyces	genus of the family Actinomycetaceae of the order Actinomycetales; a genus of gram positive, rod shaped bacteria whose organisms are nonmotile; filaments that may be present in certain species are either straight or wavy and may have swollen or clubbed heads.
actinomyces neuii	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria is catalase positive, not beta hemolytic and sensitive to beta lactam antibiotics. A. neuii is rarely pathogenic in humans but may cause neonatal sepsis.
actinomyces	genus of the family Actinomycetaceae of the order Actinomycetales; a genus of gram positive, rod shaped bacteria whose organisms are nonmotile; filaments that may be present in certain species are either straight or wavy and may have swollen or clubbed heads.
actinomyces neuii subsp. neuii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces neuii subspecies neuii.
actinomyces viscosus	A species of ACTINOMYCES found in the oral cavity of man and hamsters. It has been isolated from actinomycotic lesions in swine, cats, and dogs and has been identified as a causative agent of animal diseases.
proactinomyces bovis	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces bovis.
actinomyces odontolyticus	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces odontolyticus.
actinomyces naeslundii	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria is urease positive, hydrolyzes esculin and does not produce acid from mannitol. A. naeslundii is a commensal organism of the oral cavity and colonizes tooth surfaces but may cause infection and periodontal disease in cases in which oral trauma occurs.
actinomyces radingae	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria is alpha hemolytic, catalase and indole negative, hydrolyzes esculin and does not reduce nitrate. A. radingae infection is often associated with breast, chest, and back abscesses.
schaalia turicensis	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces turicensis.
actinomyces meyerii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces meyerii.
oospora israeli	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria hydrolyzes esculin, produces acid from xylose and is urease and catalase negative. A. israelii is found in the flora of the human oral and nasopharyngeal tract and in animals and is the most frequent cause of actinomycosis in humans.
discomyces bovis	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces bovis.
rhodococcus bronchialis	A species of aerobic, Gram positive, coryneform bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This species is catalase positive, slightly acid fast, nonmotile and contains lipoparabinomannan like lipoglycans in the cell wall. G. bronchialis is an opportunistic pathogen, causing infection at medical device implantation sites and wound sites in surgical patients.
genus actinomyces	genus of the family Actinomycetaceae of the order Actinomycetales; a genus of gram positive, rod shaped bacteria whose organisms are nonmotile; filaments that may be present in certain species are either straight or wavy and may have swollen or clubbed heads.
gordonia rubropertinctus	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Gordonia rubripertincta.
gordonia terrae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Gordonia terrae.
gordona sputi	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Gordonia sputi.
gordonia species	Ett släkte grampositiva bakterier i familjen Gordoniaceae som isolerats ur jord och sputum från patienter med bröstsjukdomar. Bakterien används för bioomvandling av naturliga ämnen.
actinomyces europaeus	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces europaeus.
actinomycotic infection of unspecified site	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
actinomyces sp	genus of the family Actinomycetaceae of the order Actinomycetales; a genus of gram positive, rod shaped bacteria whose organisms are nonmotile; filaments that may be present in certain species are either straight or wavy and may have swollen or clubbed heads.
actinomycosis	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
actinomycosis nos	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
cervicofac actinomycosis	A form of ACTINOMYCOSIS characterized by slow-growing inflammatory lesions of the lymph nodes that drain the mouth (lumpy jaw), reddening of the overlying skin, and intraperitoneal abscesses.
mycetoma; actinomycotic	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
actinomycetoma	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
actinomycosis israelii	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria hydrolyzes esculin, produces acid from xylose and is urease and catalase negative. A. israelii is found in the flora of the human oral and nasopharyngeal tract and in animals and is the most frequent cause of actinomycosis in humans.
actinomyces bovis	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces bovis.
gordona terrae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Gordonia terrae.
gordonia bacterium	Ett släkte grampositiva bakterier i familjen Gordoniaceae som isolerats ur jord och sputum från patienter med bröstsjukdomar. Bakterien används för bioomvandling av naturliga ämnen.
actinomyces turicensis	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Actinomyces turicensis.
actinomycotic infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
actinomycosis unspecified site	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
actinomyces infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
actinomycotic; mycetoma	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
actinomycotic mycetoma	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
actinobacterium israeli	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria hydrolyzes esculin, produces acid from xylose and is urease and catalase negative. A. israelii is found in the flora of the human oral and nasopharyngeal tract and in animals and is the most frequent cause of actinomycosis in humans.
brevistreptothrix israeli	A species of anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Actinobacteria. This bacteria hydrolyzes esculin, produces acid from xylose and is urease and catalase negative. A. israelii is found in the flora of the human oral and nasopharyngeal tract and in animals and is the most frequent cause of actinomycosis in humans.
actinomycetales	order of gram positive, primarily aerobic bacteria that tend to form branching filaments.
rothia dentocariosa	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Rothia dentocariosa.
leptotrichia	Ett släkte anaeroba, gramnegativa bakterier i familjen Fusobacteriaceae. Några arter orsakar bakteriemi och andra infektioner i amnionsäcken.
actinobacteria	A taxonomic phylum within kingdom Bacteria consisting of gram-positive soil bacteria with a high G+C ratio.
actinomycotic mycetoma of foot	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
actinomycetomas	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
nocardiaceae	A family of gram-positive, aerobic actinomycetes found in soil and animal tissue. Some species are the cause of infection in man and animals.
family dermatophilaceae	A taxonomic family of mammalian pathogenic bacterium, which produce mycelial filaments or muriform thalli, in the phylum Actinobacteria that includes the genera Dermatophilus and Kineosphera, among others.
actinomycetales infection	Infections with bacteria of the order ACTINOMYCETALES.
clindamicin phosphate	The phosphate salt form of clindamycin, a semi-synthetic, chlorinated broad spectrum antibiotic produced by chemical modification of lincomycin. Clindamycin phosphate is used in topical preparations.
infect actinomycetales	Infections with bacteria of the order ACTINOMYCETALES.
bacterial diseases	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
corynebacteria infections	Infections with bacteria of the genus CORYNEBACTERIUM.
actinomycete infection	Infections with bacteria of the order ACTINOMYCETALES.
bacterial infection	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
actinomycotic infections	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
infection caused by actinomycetales	Infections with bacteria of the order ACTINOMYCETALES.
mycobacterial disease	Infections with bacteria of the genus MYCOBACTERIUM.
nocardiosis	Infections with bacteria of the genus NOCARDIA.
order actinomycetales	order of gram positive, primarily aerobic bacteria that tend to form branching filaments.
actinomycins	group of peptide antibiotic agents, isolated from several species of Streptomyces (originally Actinomyces), that are active against gram positive bacteria, fungi, and neoplasms; they form complexes with DNA and therefore inhibit RNA synthesis, primarily the ribosomal type.
meractinomycin	A compound composed of a two CYCLIC PEPTIDES attached to a phenoxazine that is derived from STREPTOMYCES parvullus. It binds to DNA and inhibits RNA synthesis (transcription), with chain elongation more sensitive than initiation, termination, or release. As a result of impaired mRNA production, protein synthesis also declines after dactinomycin therapy. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1993, p2015)
actinomycin	group of peptide antibiotic agents, isolated from several species of Streptomyces (originally Actinomyces), that are active against gram positive bacteria, fungi, and neoplasms; they form complexes with DNA and therefore inhibit RNA synthesis, primarily the ribosomal type.
dactinomycin	A compound composed of a two CYCLIC PEPTIDES attached to a phenoxazine that is derived from STREPTOMYCES parvullus. It binds to DNA and inhibits RNA synthesis (transcription), with chain elongation more sensitive than initiation, termination, or release. As a result of impaired mRNA production, protein synthesis also declines after dactinomycin therapy. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1993, p2015)
actinomycines	group of peptide antibiotic agents, isolated from several species of Streptomyces (originally Actinomyces), that are active against gram positive bacteria, fungi, and neoplasms; they form complexes with DNA and therefore inhibit RNA synthesis, primarily the ribosomal type.
dactinomycin product	A compound composed of a two CYCLIC PEPTIDES attached to a phenoxazine that is derived from STREPTOMYCES parvullus. It binds to DNA and inhibits RNA synthesis (transcription), with chain elongation more sensitive than initiation, termination, or release. As a result of impaired mRNA production, protein synthesis also declines after dactinomycin therapy. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1993, p2015)
cactinomycin	A chromopeptide antineoplastic antibiotic isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces chrysomallus. Cactinomycin binds to DNA by intercalating between guanine and cytosine, forming stable antibiotic-DNA complexes that inhibit RNA and protein synthesis. (NCI04)
dna minor groove binding agent	An antineoplastic agent that either covalently or noncovalently binds to the minor groove of DNA, causing inhibition of DNA synthesis. (NCI)
actinomycotic granuloma	A granuloma that develops in response to Actinomycotic fungal infection.
ampicillin	Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
procaine benzylpenicillin	Semisynthetic antibiotic prepared by combining penicillin G with PROCAINE.
penicillin g sodium	The sodium salt form of benzylpenicillin, a semi-synthetic, broad-spectrum penicillin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Benzylpenicillin sodium binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and causes cell lysis.
actinomyces infections	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
ampicillin sodium	The sodium salt form of ampicillin, a broad-spectrum semisynthetic derivative of aminopenicillin. Ampicillin sodium inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis by binding to penicillin binding proteins, thereby inhibiting peptidoglycan synthesis, a critical component of the bacterial cell wall.
ampicillin trihydrate	The trihydrate form of ampicillin, a broad-spectrum semisynthetic derivative of aminopenicillin. Ampicillin trihydrate inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis by binding to penicillin binding proteins, thereby inhibiting peptidoglycan synthesis, a critical component of the bacterial cell wall.
penicillin v potassium	The potassium salt of penicillin V, a member of the penicillin antibiotic family with broad-spectrum bactericidal activity. Penicillin V binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), enzymes located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, resulting in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and cell lysis. PBPs participate in the terminal stages of assembling the bacterial cell wall, and in reshaping the cell wall during cell division. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity.
potassium hetacillin	The potassium salt of hetacillin, a semi-synthetic penicillin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Hetacillin is a prodrug that is converted to ampicillin via esterases. Ampicillin binds to and inactivated penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, thereby preventing the cross-linkage of peptidoglycans, which are critical components of the bacterial cell wall. This leads to an interruption of the bacterial cell wall and causes bacterial cell lysis.
amoxicillin sodium	The sodium salt form of a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic aminopenicillin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Amoxicillin binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This interrupts bacterial cell wall synthesis and results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and causes cell lysis.
lumpy jaw	A form of ACTINOMYCOSIS characterized by slow-growing inflammatory lesions of the lymph nodes that drain the mouth (lumpy jaw), reddening of the overlying skin, and intraperitoneal abscesses.
actinomycoses	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
high gc gram pos bact	En klass bakterier med varierande morfologiska egenskaper. Stammar av Actinobacteria har mer än 80% 16SrRNA-sekvensöverensstämmelse sinsemellan, samt vissa signaturnukleotider.
actinomycotic mycetema	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
bacterial diseases nos	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
actinomyces; infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
high gc gram-positive bacteria	En klass bakterier med varierande morfologiska egenskaper. Stammar av Actinobacteria har mer än 80% 16SrRNA-sekvensöverensstämmelse sinsemellan, samt vissa signaturnukleotider.
bacterial; disease	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
infect actinomyces	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
mycetoma; actinomycosis	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
actinomycotic madura foot	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
infection; actinomycotic	Infections with bacteria of the genus ACTINOMYCES.
madura foot due to actinomadura	A chronic granulomatous inflammation involving the deep dermis and the subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by Actinomycetes bacteria.
bacterial infections	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
mycetoma	A chronic progressive subcutaneous infection caused by species of fungi (eumycetoma), or actinomycetes (actinomycetoma). It is characterized by tumefaction, abscesses, and tumor-like granules representing microcolonies of pathogens, such as MADURELLA fungi and bacteria ACTINOMYCETES, with different grain colors.
bacterial infection of unspecified site	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
disease of neck	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the anatomic structures of the neck region. This category includes disorders of the pharynx, larynx, thyroid gland, and parathyroid gland.
jaw lumpy	A form of ACTINOMYCOSIS characterized by slow-growing inflammatory lesions of the lymph nodes that drain the mouth (lumpy jaw), reddening of the overlying skin, and intraperitoneal abscesses.
spectinomycin	An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces spectabilis. It is active against gram-negative bacteria and used for the treatment of GONORRHEA.
anti bacterial compounds	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
spectinomycin sulfate	The sulfate salt form of spectinomycin, an aminocyclitol aminoglycoside antibiotic derived from Streptomyces spectabilis with bacteriostatic activity. Spectinomycin binds to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit. As a result, this agent interferes with the initiation of protein synthesis and with proper protein elongation. This eventually leads to bacterial cell death.
anti bacterial agent	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
anti bacterial agents	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
spectinomycin sulfate tetrahydrate	The tetrahydrate sulfate salt form of spectinomycin, an aminocyclitol aminoglycoside antibiotic derived from Streptomyces spectabilis with bacteriostatic activity. Spectinomycin binds to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit. As a result, this agent interferes with the initiation of protein synthesis and with proper protein elongation. This eventually leads to bacterial cell death.
aminoglycoside	Glycosylated compounds in which there is an amino substituent on the glycoside. Some of them are clinically important ANTIBIOTICS.
actinospectacin	An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces spectabilis. It is active against gram-negative bacteria and used for the treatment of GONORRHEA.
escherichia coli infections	Infections with bacteria of the species ESCHERICHIA COLI.
espectinomicina	An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces spectabilis. It is active against gram-negative bacteria and used for the treatment of GONORRHEA.
spectinomycin product	An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces spectabilis. It is active against gram-negative bacteria and used for the treatment of GONORRHEA.
spectinomycine	An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces spectabilis. It is active against gram-negative bacteria and used for the treatment of GONORRHEA.
actins	Filamentous proteins that are the main constituent of the thin filaments of muscle fibers. The filaments (known also as filamentous or F-actin) can be dissociated into their globular subunits; each subunit is composed of a single polypeptide 375 amino acids long. This is known as globular or G-actin. In conjunction with MYOSINS, actin is responsible for the contraction and relaxation of muscle.
cytoskeletal gamma-actin	Actin, cytoplasmic 2 (375 aa, ~42 kDa) is encoded by the human ACTG1 gene. This protein plays a role in cytoskeletal structure.
actin	Filamentous proteins that are the main constituent of the thin filaments of muscle fibers. The filaments (known also as filamentous or F-actin) can be dissociated into their globular subunits; each subunit is composed of a single polypeptide 375 amino acids long. This is known as globular or G-actin. In conjunction with MYOSINS, actin is responsible for the contraction and relaxation of muscle.
actomyosin	A protein complex of actin and MYOSINS occurring in muscle. It is the essential contractile substance of muscle.
globular actin	The monomeric form of actin.
f actin	A fibrillar actin polymer.
striated muscle thin filament	Filaments formed of actin and associated proteins; attached to Z discs at either end of sarcomeres in myofibrils. [ISBN:0815316194]
myofilaments	Fibrillar protein polymers found in the contractile apparatus of muscle cells.
g-actin	The monomeric form of actin.
polymerized actin	A fibrillar actin polymer.
thin filament	Filaments formed of actin and associated proteins; attached to Z discs at either end of sarcomeres in myofibrils. [ISBN:0815316194]
f-actin	A fibrillar actin polymer.
structural protein	Proteins whose major function is to give shape and support to tissues, cells, and subcellular structures.
smooth muscle gamma-actin	Actin, gamma-enteric smooth muscle (376 aa, ~42 kDa) is encoded by the human ACTG2 gene. This protein plays a role in the cytoskelton and cell motility.
cell motility	ability of cells to move from one location to another.
cytokinesis	The division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its partitioning into two daughter cells. [GOC:mtg_cell_cycle]
cytoskeleton	The network of filaments, tubules, and interconnecting filamentous bridges which give shape, structure, and organization to the cytoplasm.
regulation of cell shape	Any process that modulates the surface configuration of a cell. [GOC:dph, GOC:go_curators, GOC:tb]
scaffolding protein	Scaffolding Proteins participate in many cellular functions by serving as a supportive base that spatially or temporally organizes, juxtaposes, regulates, and/or promotes the function of other cellular elements (usually proteins). (NCI)
cytoskeletal protein gene	Cytoskeletal Genes encode Cytoskeletal Proteins, diverse structural proteins including polymerizable globular subunits (actin, tubulin), "motor ATPases" (myosin, dynein), membrane-supporting linkers (spectrin, clathrin), fibrous proteins (keratin, vimentin), and many more. As constituents of the cytoskeleton, Cytoskeletal Proteins form a flexible cellular framework that provides attachment points for organelles and formed bodies and makes communication between cell parts possible. (NCI)
microfilament gene	A gene that encodes cytoskeletal microfilament proteins.
cell movement	The movement of cells from one location to another. Distinguish from CYTOKINESIS which is the process of dividing the CYTOPLASM of a cell.
action potential	Abrupt changes in the membrane potential that sweep along the CELL MEMBRANE of excitable cells in response to excitation stimuli.
neuronal action potential	An action potential that occurs in a neuron. [GOC:dph, GOC:isa_complete, GOC:tb]
cardiac muscle cell action potential	An action potential that occurs in a cardiac muscle cell. [GOC:BHF, GOC:mtg_cardiac_conduct_nov11]
regulation of membrane potential	Any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential, the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane. [GOC:jl, GOC:mtg_cardio, GOC:tb, ISBN:0198506732]
action potentials	Abrupt changes in the membrane potential that sweep along the CELL MEMBRANE of excitable cells in response to excitation stimuli.
membrane repolarization during action potential	The process in which ions are transported across a membrane such that the membrane potential changes in the direction from the positive membrane potential at the peak of the action potential towards the negative resting potential. [GOC:BHF, GOC:mtg_cardiac_conduct_nov11]
membrane depolarization during action potential	The process in which membrane potential changes in the depolarizing direction from the negative resting potential towards the positive membrane potential that will be the peak of the action potential. [GOC:BHF, GOC:mtg_cardiac_conduct_nov11]
down-regulation of action potential	Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of action potential creation, propagation or termination. This typically occurs via modulation of the activity or expression of voltage-gated ion channels. [GOC:go_curators]
downregulation of action potential	Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of action potential creation, propagation or termination. This typically occurs via modulation of the activity or expression of voltage-gated ion channels. [GOC:go_curators]
up regulation of action potential	Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of action potential creation, propagation or termination. This typically occurs via modulation of the activity or expression of voltage-gated ion channels. [GOC:go_curators]
regulation of action potential	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of action potential creation, propagation or termination. This typically occurs via modulation of the activity or expression of voltage-gated ion channels. [GOC:dos, GOC:dph, GOC:go_curators, GOC:tb, ISBN:978-0-07-139011-8]
activated charcoal	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
industrial aid	Natural or synthetic substances that are used in various industries or in laboratories for a broad range of applications. This group includes, but is not limited to, pharmaceutical excipients, research/diagnostic agents, agricultural agents, and other non-edible products that may have human health implication.
medicinal carbon	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
charcoal activated	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
antidote agent	Agents counteracting or neutralizing the action of POISONS.
adsorbent	Agent used to bind another component from within a formulation, acting as a carrier, reservoir or sequestrant (e.g. water-absorbing agent). (Adapted from Medicinescomplete)
carbón activado	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
chelating agent product	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
adsorbent charcoal	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
flatulence	Production or presence of gas in the gastrointestinal tract which may be expelled through the anus.
product containing activated charcoal	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
wind symptom	Production or presence of gas in the gastrointestinal tract which may be expelled through the anus.
activate carbon	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
drugs--overdose	accidental or deliberate dose of a medication or street drug that is in excess of what is normally used.
poisoning by	A condition or physical state produced by the ingestion, injection, inhalation of or exposure to a deleterious agent.
by poisoning	A condition or physical state produced by the ingestion, injection, inhalation of or exposure to a deleterious agent.
medicinal charcoal	Carbon that has been treated to create small, low-volume pores that increase the surface area available for adsorption.
uremia	A clinical syndrome associated with the retention of renal waste products or uremic toxins in the blood. It is usually the result of RENAL INSUFFICIENCY. Most uremic toxins are end products of protein or nitrogen CATABOLISM, such as UREA or CREATININE. Severe uremia can lead to multiple organ dysfunctions with a constellation of symptoms.
antidotes	Agents counteracting or neutralizing the action of POISONS.
gastrointestinal agent	Drugs used for their effects on the gastrointestinal system, as to control gastric acidity, regulate gastrointestinal motility and water flow, and improve digestion.
activity of daily living	The performance of the basic activities of self care, such as dressing, ambulation, or eating.
bathed	The immersion or washing of the body or any of its parts in water or other medium for cleansing or medical treatment. It includes bathing for personal hygiene as well as for medical purposes with the addition of therapeutic agents, such as alkalines, antiseptics, oil, etc.
functional ability	The performance of the basic activities of self care, such as dressing, ambulation, or eating.
recovery of function	Partiell eller fullständig återhämtning till normal eller egentlig fysiologisk aktivitet i ett organ eller en kroppsdel efter sjukdom eller skada.
functional disability	An impairment that causes an individual to require assistance in order to perform an activity.
activities of daily living	The performance of the basic activities of self care, such as dressing, ambulation, or eating.
housekeeping	Skötsel av hus och hem.
dressing- activity of daily living	Carrying out the coordinated actions and tasks of putting on and taking off clothes and footwear in sequence and in keeping with climatic and social conditions, such as by putting on, adjusting and removing shirts, skirts, blouses, pants, undergarments, saris, kimono, tights, hats, gloves, coats, shoes, boots, sandals and slippers.
yard work	The act of tending a yard as a chore or hobby.
household activity	The performance of the basic activities of self care, such as dressing, ambulation, or eating.
teach or supervise	Action educating patient or caregiver.
functions	Cualquier función o propiedad que no sea principalmente morfológica o estructural, incluidas características mensurables y observables, así como acciones fisiológicas
daily activity	The performance of the basic activities of self care, such as dressing, ambulation, or eating.
bathing-hygiene self-care deficit	Impaired ability to cleanse oneself
independent for grooming	A response indicating that an individual requires no help with their personal grooming care.
dependent for dressing	A response indicating that an individual is dependent on others for dressing.
instrumental activitiy of daily living	Complex activities performed to support basic life skills
activities of daily living alteration	Change in modification of ability to maintain oneself
bathing/hygiene deficit	Impaired ability to cleanse oneself
feeding independent	A response indicating that an individual can feed themselves independent of help from others.
helps with dressing	The person actively helps with dressing, they may lift their feet for a pant opening or a child may help by pushing their arm through a sleeve.
co-operates with dressing	The person may not be able to actively assist but they act jointly to being dressed and do not, for example, fight the caretaker.
home maintenance alteration	Inability to independently maintain a safe growth-promoting immediate environment.
feeding deficit	Inability to eat independently.
actomyosin -retired-	A protein complex of actin and MYOSINS occurring in muscle. It is the essential contractile substance of muscle.
actin-activated atpase	superfamily of proteins that function as translocating proteins the common characteristics are to bind actin and hydrolyze MgATP generally consist of heavy chains which are involved in locomotion, and light chains which are are involved in regulation superfamily of myosins is organized into structural classes based upon the type and arrangement of the subunits they contain.
actin activated atpase	superfamily of proteins that function as translocating proteins the common characteristics are to bind actin and hydrolyze MgATP generally consist of heavy chains which are involved in locomotion, and light chains which are are involved in regulation superfamily of myosins is organized into structural classes based upon the type and arrangement of the subunits they contain.
acupuncture	Treatment of disease by inserting needles along specific pathways or meridians. The placement varies with the disease being treated. It is sometimes used in conjunction with heat, moxibustion, acupressure, or electric stimulation.
acupuncture nos	Treatment of disease by inserting needles along specific pathways or meridians. The placement varies with the disease being treated. It is sometimes used in conjunction with heat, moxibustion, acupressure, or electric stimulation.
acupuncture for analgesia	Analgesia produced by the insertion of ACUPUNCTURE needles at certain ACUPUNCTURE POINTS on the body. This activates small myelinated nerve fibers in the muscle which transmit impulses to the spinal cord and then activate three centers - the spinal cord, midbrain and pituitary/hypothalamus - to produce analgesia.
acupuncture needle	Needles designed for insertion in predetermined sites (i.e., acupuncture points) of the body to perform acupuncture procedures. These needles typically consist of sharp metallic devices of small diameter (0.12 to 0.30 mm is typical) and 15 to 30 mm length; most needles include an easy-grip ring handle. Treatments using acupuncture needles are intended to relieve pain, for surgical anesthesia, or other therapies.
acupuncture needles	Needles designed for insertion in predetermined sites (i.e., acupuncture points) of the body to perform acupuncture procedures. These needles typically consist of sharp metallic devices of small diameter (0.12 to 0.30 mm is typical) and 15 to 30 mm length; most needles include an easy-grip ring handle. Treatments using acupuncture needles are intended to relieve pain, for surgical anesthesia, or other therapies.
acupuncture analgesia	Analgesia produced by the insertion of ACUPUNCTURE needles at certain ACUPUNCTURE POINTS on the body. This activates small myelinated nerve fibers in the muscle which transmit impulses to the spinal cord and then activate three centers - the spinal cord, midbrain and pituitary/hypothalamus - to produce analgesia.
anesthesia acupuncture	Use of ACUPUNCTURE to block the afferent nerve impulses from reaching the brain to reduce the sensation of pain for surgery.
acupuncture for anaesthesia	Use of ACUPUNCTURE to block the afferent nerve impulses from reaching the brain to reduce the sensation of pain for surgery.
puncture	Incision of tissues for injection of medication or for other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures. Punctures of the skin, for example may be used for diagnostic drainage; of blood vessels for diagnostic imaging procedures.
acupuncture for anesthesia	Use of ACUPUNCTURE to block the afferent nerve impulses from reaching the brain to reduce the sensation of pain for surgery.
acupuncture anesthesia	Use of ACUPUNCTURE to block the afferent nerve impulses from reaching the brain to reduce the sensation of pain for surgery.
anaesthesia acupuncture	Use of ACUPUNCTURE to block the afferent nerve impulses from reaching the brain to reduce the sensation of pain for surgery.
acupuncture anaesthesia	Use of ACUPUNCTURE to block the afferent nerve impulses from reaching the brain to reduce the sensation of pain for surgery.
insert	<p>Insertion</p>
insertion	<p>Insertion</p>
needle acupuncture	Needles designed for insertion in predetermined sites (i.e., acupuncture points) of the body to perform acupuncture procedures. These needles typically consist of sharp metallic devices of small diameter (0.12 to 0.30 mm is typical) and 15 to 30 mm length; most needles include an easy-grip ring handle. Treatments using acupuncture needles are intended to relieve pain, for surgical anesthesia, or other therapies.
acupuncture point	Designated locations along nerves or organ meridians for inserting acupuncture needles.
anatomic site	Named locations of or within the body.
acute alcoholic hepatitis	Acute hepatitis resulting from ingestion of alcohol.
alcohol; hepatitis	INFLAMMATION of the LIVER due to ALCOHOL ABUSE. It is characterized by NECROSIS of HEPATOCYTES, infiltration by NEUTROPHILS, and deposit of MALLORY BODIES. Depending on its severity, the inflammatory lesion may be reversible or progress to LIVER CIRRHOSIS.
alcoholic hepatitis	INFLAMMATION of the LIVER due to ALCOHOL ABUSE. It is characterized by NECROSIS of HEPATOCYTES, infiltration by NEUTROPHILS, and deposit of MALLORY BODIES. Depending on its severity, the inflammatory lesion may be reversible or progress to LIVER CIRRHOSIS.
acute alcoholic liver disease	Acute hepatitis resulting from ingestion of alcohol.
hepatitis acute	Acute hepatic injury resulting from inflammation typically accompanied by increased serum alanine transaminase activity. Etiologies include viral hepatitis, drugs, toxins, and autoimmune disorders. []
ethyl alcohol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
alcoholic liver disease acute	Acute hepatitis resulting from ingestion of alcohol.
drug or medicament	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
medications	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
liver	A large lobed glandular organ in the abdomen of vertebrates that is responsible for detoxification, metabolism, synthesis and storage of various substances.
acute	Condition of less than 3 to 6 months duration
ac alcoholic hepatitis	Acute hepatitis resulting from ingestion of alcohol.
disease;liver	Pathological processes of the LIVER.
hepatic disease	Pathological processes of the LIVER.
alcohol	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
livers	A large lobed glandular organ in the abdomen of vertebrates that is responsible for detoxification, metabolism, synthesis and storage of various substances.
hepar	A large lobed glandular organ in the abdomen of vertebrates that is responsible for detoxification, metabolism, synthesis and storage of various substances.
poison	Substances which, when ingested, inhaled, or absorbed, or when applied to, injected into, or developed within the body in relatively small amounts may, by their chemical action, cause damage to structure or disturbance of function. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
acute onset	Condition of less than 3 to 6 months duration
sudden onset	The manifestation of the injury, disease, or condition is characterized as having an immediate or early onset.
alimentary system	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
hepatobiliary	The liver, gallbladder, and associated ducts, considered collectively.
acute atopic conjunctivitis	Atopic conjunctivitis that is of relatively short duration and that has a rapid onset.
conjunctivitis allergic	Conjunctivitis due to hypersensitivity to various allergens.
vernal conjunctivitis	Inflammation of the cornea that is seasonal in nature.
allergic conjunctivitis	Conjunctivitis due to hypersensitivity to various allergens.
acute conjunctivitis	Acute inflammation of the conjunctiva.
acute allergic conjunctivitis	Atopic conjunctivitis that is of relatively short duration and that has a rapid onset.
atopic conjunctivitis	Conjunctivitis due to hypersensitivity to various allergens.
critical allergic conjunctivitis syndrome	Atopic conjunctivitis that is of relatively short duration and that has a rapid onset.
angelucci's syndrome	Atopic conjunctivitis that is of relatively short duration and that has a rapid onset.
atopic allergy	genetic predisposition toward the development of immediate (type I) hypersensitivity reactions against common environmental antigens (atopic allergy); the most common clinical manifestation is allergic rhinitis; bronchial asthmas, atopic dermatitis and food allergy also occur.
tunica conjunctiva	The mucous membrane that covers the posterior surface of the eyelids and the anterior pericorneal surface of the eyeball.
conjunctiva	The mucous membrane that covers the posterior surface of the eyelids and the anterior pericorneal surface of the eyeball.
conjunctivitis acute atopic	Atopic conjunctivitis that is of relatively short duration and that has a rapid onset.
mucosa of organ	An EPITHELIUM with MUCUS-secreting cells, such as GOBLET CELLS. It forms the lining of many body cavities, such as the DIGESTIVE TRACT, the RESPIRATORY TRACT, and the reproductive tract. Mucosa, rich in blood and lymph vessels, comprises an inner epithelium, a middle layer (lamina propria) of loose CONNECTIVE TISSUE, and an outer layer (muscularis mucosae) of SMOOTH MUSCLE CELLS that separates the mucosa from submucosa.
orbit structure	Bony cavity that holds the eyeball and its associated tissues and appendages.
acuteness	Condition of less than 3 to 6 months duration
acute inflammation	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
acute inflammatory infiltration	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
unspecified substance	Any matter of defined composition that has discrete existence, whose origin may be biological, mineral or chemical.
atopic; conjunctivitis	Conjunctivitis due to hypersensitivity to various allergens.
ac atopic conjunctivitis	Atopic conjunctivitis that is of relatively short duration and that has a rapid onset.
orbit	Bony cavity that holds the eyeball and its associated tissues and appendages.
atopy	genetic predisposition toward the development of immediate (type I) hypersensitivity reactions against common environmental antigens (atopic allergy); the most common clinical manifestation is allergic rhinitis; bronchial asthmas, atopic dermatitis and food allergy also occur.
substance	Any matter of defined composition that has discrete existence, whose origin may be biological, mineral or chemical.
ocular	Subdivision of face which has as its direct parts orbital cavity and its content and eyelids.
onset acute	The manifestation of the injury, disease, or condition is characterized as having an immediate or early onset.
allergic process	A type of immune mediated hypersensitivity process that represents the underlying mechanism of allergic conditions.
unspecified acute conjunctivitis	Acute inflammation of the conjunctiva.
acute bronchiolitis	Acute inflammation of the bronchioles usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus.
inflammation of the bronchioles	Inflammation of the BRONCHIOLES.
capillary pneumonia	Acute inflammation of the bronchioles usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus.
bronchiolitis	Inflammation of the BRONCHIOLES.
follicular bronchiolitis	Follicular bronchiolitis is a polyclonal hyperplasia of bronchiolar associated lymphoid tissue characterized by the is characterized by the development of lymphoid follicles with germinal centers in walls of the small airways. [LMU:mgriese, PMID:32040879, PMID:32047693]
acute bronchitis	sudden inflammation of the tracheobronchial tree, which comprises the trachea, or windpipe, and the bronchi; typically associated with a viral upper respiratory tract infection, such as the common cold, and is usually mild; in patients with chronic lung or heart disease, acute bronchitis is more severe, and can become chronic and progress to pneumonia.
acute capillary bronchiolitis	Acute inflammation of the bronchioles usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus.
acute tracheobronchitis	sudden inflammation of the tracheobronchial tree, which comprises the trachea, or windpipe, and the bronchi; typically associated with a viral upper respiratory tract infection, such as the common cold, and is usually mild; in patients with chronic lung or heart disease, acute bronchitis is more severe, and can become chronic and progress to pneumonia.
structure of lobular bronchiole	smaller airways in the lungs; minute subdivisions of the bronchi that terminate in the alveoli (oxygen exchange apparatus).
unicellular organism	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
acute bronchiolitis nos	Acute inflammation of the bronchioles usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus.
bronchiolar	smaller airways in the lungs; minute subdivisions of the bronchi that terminate in the alveoli (oxygen exchange apparatus).
bronchiolitis; acute	Acute inflammation of the bronchioles usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus.
lobular bronchiole	smaller airways in the lungs; minute subdivisions of the bronchi that terminate in the alveoli (oxygen exchange apparatus).
rndx infection unspecified	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
acute inflammatory cell infiltration	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
micro-organisms	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
abrupt onset	The manifestation of the injury, disease, or condition is characterized as having an immediate or early onset.
bronchioles	smaller airways in the lungs; minute subdivisions of the bronchi that terminate in the alveoli (oxygen exchange apparatus).
active inflammation	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
acute; bronchiolitis	Acute inflammation of the bronchioles usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus.
capillary	The minute vessels that connect arterioles and venules.
lungs	Either of the pair of organs occupying the cavity of the thorax that effect the aeration of the blood.
single cell organisms	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
respiratory infections	Invasion of the host RESPIRATORY SYSTEM by microorganisms, usually leading to pathological processes or diseases.
bronchiole	smaller airways in the lungs; minute subdivisions of the bronchi that terminate in the alveoli (oxygen exchange apparatus).
inflammatory reaction	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
respiratory tract infection	Invasion of the host RESPIRATORY SYSTEM by microorganisms, usually leading to pathological processes or diseases.
unspecified infection	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
thoracic cavity	Body cavity subdivision which is enclosed by the thoracic wall and the diaphragm. Examples: There is only one thoracic cavity.
acute disorder	Disease having a short and relatively severe course.
sodium cromoglycate	A chromone complex that acts by inhibiting the release of chemical mediators from sensitized MAST CELLS. It is used in the prophylactic treatment of both allergic and exercise-induced asthma, but does not affect an established asthmatic attack.
disease acute	Disease having a short and relatively severe course.
budesonide	A glucocorticoid used in the management of ASTHMA, the treatment of various skin disorders, and allergic RHINITIS.
flunisolide	A synthetic corticosteroid with antiinflammatory and antiallergic properties. Flunisolide is a glucocorticoid receptor agonist that binds to cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptors and subsequently translocates to the nucleus where it initiates the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes such as lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes, both are potent mediators of inflammation.
acute disease	Disease having a short and relatively severe course.
formoterolum	A long-acting beta-adrenergic receptor agonist with bronchodilator activity. Formoterol selectively binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle, thereby activating intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, improve mucociliary clearance and reduce mediator substance release from inflammatory cells, especially from mast cells.
acute dis	Disease having a short and relatively severe course.
salmeterol	A highly selective, long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist with bronchodilatory activity. Salmeterol's benzene moiety resembles the structure of catecholamines, and occupies the active site of beta-2 adrenergic receptor, while the long, lipophilic side chain of salmeterol, binds to the so called 'exosite' near the beta-2 adrenergic receptors. The binding at the exosite allows the active portion of the molecule to remain at the receptor site and continually engage and disengage with the receptor, therefore providing a long duration of action. This agent stimulates intracellular adenyl cyclase to catalyze the conversion of adenosine triphosphate to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels result in relaxation of bronchiolar smooth muscle, bronchodilation and increased bronchial airflow.
formoterol fumarate	The fumarate salt form of formoterol, a long-acting and selective sympathomimetic beta-receptor agonist with bronchodilator activity. Formoterol fumarate binds beta 2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and stimulates intracellular adenyl cyclase, thereby increasing the production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, improve mucociliary clearance and reduce mediator substance release in inflammatory cells, especially from mast cells. (NCI05)
acute intermittent porphyria	An autosomal dominant porphyria that is due to a deficiency of HYDROXYMETHYLBILANE SYNTHASE in the LIVER, the third enzyme in the 8-enzyme biosynthetic pathway of HEME. Clinical features are recurrent and life-threatening neurologic disturbances, ABDOMINAL PAIN, and elevated level of AMINOLEVULINIC ACID and PORPHOBILINOGEN in the urine.
acute diseases	Disease having a short and relatively severe course.
adrenal; crisis	A life threatening condition due to inadequate concentration of glucocorticoids characterized by loss of vascular tone leading to hypotension, tachycardia, and eventual cardiovascular collapse.
acute disorders	Disease having a short and relatively severe course.
acute reaction to stress	Přechodná porucha vznikající akutně jako reakce na intenzivní duševní či fyzický stres u zdravé osoby. Příznaky vznikají okamžitě, mají ráz výrazné úzkosti, mohou být disociační poruchy, zoufalství, izolace, hněv, neadekvátní hyperaktivita, nekontrolovatelný zármutek, poruchy spánku, koncentrace, motorický neklid, znovuprožívání traumatické události. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2014 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz). V případě, že trvá déle než měsíc, jedná se spíše o posttraumatickou stresovou poruchu.
late acute graft-versus-host disease	Late acute graft versus host disease is defined as presence of symptoms and signs 100 days after an allogenic transplant.
disease	A definite pathologic process with a characteristic set of signs and symptoms. It may affect the whole body or any of its parts, and its etiology, pathology, and prognosis may be known or unknown.
ailments	A state of ill health, bodily malfunction, or discomfort.
sudden hearing loss	Sensorineural hearing loss which develops suddenly over a period of hours or a few days. It varies in severity from mild to total deafness. Sudden deafness can be due to head trauma, vascular diseases, infections, or can appear without obvious cause or warning.
acute rheumatic fever	A febrile disease occurring as a delayed sequela of infections with STREPTOCOCCUS PYOGENES. It is characterized by multiple focal inflammatory lesions of the connective tissue structures, such as the heart, blood vessels, and joints (POLYARTHRITIS) and brain, and by the presence of ASCHOFF BODIES in the myocardium and skin.
addisonian crisis	A life threatening condition due to inadequate concentration of glucocorticoids characterized by loss of vascular tone leading to hypotension, tachycardia, and eventual cardiovascular collapse.
gross stress reaction	Přechodná porucha vznikající akutně jako reakce na intenzivní duševní či fyzický stres u zdravé osoby. Příznaky vznikají okamžitě, mají ráz výrazné úzkosti, mohou být disociační poruchy, zoufalství, izolace, hněv, neadekvátní hyperaktivita, nekontrolovatelný zármutek, poruchy spánku, koncentrace, motorický neklid, znovuprožívání traumatické události. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2014 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz). V případě, že trvá déle než měsíc, jedná se spíše o posttraumatickou stresovou poruchu.
disease or disorder	A definite pathologic process with a characteristic set of signs and symptoms. It may affect the whole body or any of its parts, and its etiology, pathology, and prognosis may be known or unknown.
acute disease/disorder	Disease having a short and relatively severe course.
acute laryngitis nos	An acute inflammatory process affecting the larynx. It is caused by bacteria, viruses, or vocal strain. Signs and symptoms include sore throat, cough, swallowing difficulties, and hoarseness.
laryngitis	Inflammation of the LARYNGEAL MUCOSA, including the VOCAL CORDS. Laryngitis is characterized by irritation, edema, and reduced pliability of the mucosa leading to VOICE DISORDERS such as APHONIA and HOARSENESS.
acute laryngitis	An acute inflammatory process affecting the larynx. It is caused by bacteria, viruses, or vocal strain. Signs and symptoms include sore throat, cough, swallowing difficulties, and hoarseness.
laryngitides	Inflammation of the LARYNGEAL MUCOSA, including the VOCAL CORDS. Laryngitis is characterized by irritation, edema, and reduced pliability of the mucosa leading to VOICE DISORDERS such as APHONIA and HOARSENESS.
structure of larynx	A tubular organ of VOICE production. It is located in the anterior neck, superior to the TRACHEA and inferior to the tongue and HYOID BONE.
laryngeal	A tubular organ of VOICE production. It is located in the anterior neck, superior to the TRACHEA and inferior to the tongue and HYOID BONE.
laryngitis acute nos	An acute inflammatory process affecting the larynx. It is caused by bacteria, viruses, or vocal strain. Signs and symptoms include sore throat, cough, swallowing difficulties, and hoarseness.
neutrophilic infiltration	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
onset sudden	The manifestation of the injury, disease, or condition is characterized as having an immediate or early onset.
laryngeal inflammation	Inflammation of the LARYNGEAL MUCOSA, including the VOCAL CORDS. Laryngitis is characterized by irritation, edema, and reduced pliability of the mucosa leading to VOICE DISORDERS such as APHONIA and HOARSENESS.
larynx inflamed	Inflammation of the LARYNGEAL MUCOSA, including the VOCAL CORDS. Laryngitis is characterized by irritation, edema, and reduced pliability of the mucosa leading to VOICE DISORDERS such as APHONIA and HOARSENESS.
laryngitis nos	Inflammation of the LARYNGEAL MUCOSA, including the VOCAL CORDS. Laryngitis is characterized by irritation, edema, and reduced pliability of the mucosa leading to VOICE DISORDERS such as APHONIA and HOARSENESS.
laryngitis acute	An acute inflammatory process affecting the larynx. It is caused by bacteria, viruses, or vocal strain. Signs and symptoms include sore throat, cough, swallowing difficulties, and hoarseness.
larynx	A tubular organ of VOICE production. It is located in the anterior neck, superior to the TRACHEA and inferior to the tongue and HYOID BONE.
abrupt onset of	The manifestation of the injury, disease, or condition is characterized as having an immediate or early onset.
acute pancreatitis	An acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma. Signs and symptoms include severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and shock. Causes include alcohol consumption, presence of gallstones, trauma, and drugs.
pancreatitis	INFLAMMATION of the PANCREAS. Pancreatitis is classified as acute unless there are computed tomographic or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic findings of CHRONIC PANCREATITIS (International Symposium on Acute Pancreatitis, Atlanta, 1992). The two most common forms of acute pancreatitis are ALCOHOLIC PANCREATITIS and gallstone pancreatitis.
hemorrhagic pancreatitis	An acute INFLAMMATION of the PANCREAS in which the initial edematous pancreatitis evolved into necrosis accompanied by HEMORRHAGE.
pancreas infection	A disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the pancreas.
pancreatic infection	A disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the pancreas.
pancreatitis acute	An acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma. Signs and symptoms include severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and shock. Causes include alcohol consumption, presence of gallstones, trauma, and drugs.
pancreatitis necrotizings	A severe form of acute INFLAMMATION of the PANCREAS characterized by one or more areas of NECROSIS in the pancreas with varying degree of involvement of the surrounding tissues or organ systems. Massive pancreatic necrosis may lead to DIABETES MELLITUS, and malabsorption.
digestive structure	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
exocrine and endocrine pancreas	A nodular organ in the ABDOMEN that contains a mixture of ENDOCRINE GLANDS and EXOCRINE GLANDS. The small endocrine portion consists of the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS secreting a number of hormones into the blood stream. The large exocrine portion (EXOCRINE PANCREAS) is a compound acinar gland that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system that empties into the DUODENUM.
pancreatitis; acute	An acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma. Signs and symptoms include severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and shock. Causes include alcohol consumption, presence of gallstones, trauma, and drugs.
cptac baseline medical forms terminology	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on obtaining data for baseline medical forms.
gastrointestinal body system	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
pancreas	A nodular organ in the ABDOMEN that contains a mixture of ENDOCRINE GLANDS and EXOCRINE GLANDS. The small endocrine portion consists of the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS secreting a number of hormones into the blood stream. The large exocrine portion (EXOCRINE PANCREAS) is a compound acinar gland that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system that empties into the DUODENUM.
acute inflammatory infiltrate	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
digestive system	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
structure of pancreas	A nodular organ in the ABDOMEN that contains a mixture of ENDOCRINE GLANDS and EXOCRINE GLANDS. The small endocrine portion consists of the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS secreting a number of hormones into the blood stream. The large exocrine portion (EXOCRINE PANCREAS) is a compound acinar gland that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system that empties into the DUODENUM.
acute pancreatitides	An acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma. Signs and symptoms include severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and shock. Causes include alcohol consumption, presence of gallstones, trauma, and drugs.
pancreas inflammation	INFLAMMATION of the PANCREAS. Pancreatitis is classified as acute unless there are computed tomographic or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic findings of CHRONIC PANCREATITIS (International Symposium on Acute Pancreatitis, Atlanta, 1992). The two most common forms of acute pancreatitis are ALCOHOLIC PANCREATITIS and gallstone pancreatitis.
pancreatitis necrotising	A severe form of acute INFLAMMATION of the PANCREAS characterized by one or more areas of NECROSIS in the pancreas with varying degree of involvement of the surrounding tissues or organ systems. Massive pancreatic necrosis may lead to DIABETES MELLITUS, and malabsorption.
digestive systems	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
acute pancreatitis nos	An acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma. Signs and symptoms include severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and shock. Causes include alcohol consumption, presence of gallstones, trauma, and drugs.
acute inflammatory reaction	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
acute; pancreatitis	An acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma. Signs and symptoms include severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and shock. Causes include alcohol consumption, presence of gallstones, trauma, and drugs.
ap - acute pancreatitis	An acute inflammatory process that leads to necrosis of the pancreatic parenchyma. Signs and symptoms include severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and shock. Causes include alcohol consumption, presence of gallstones, trauma, and drugs.
acute pericementitis	An acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
acute; periodontitis	An acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
abscess periodontal	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
acute periodontitis	An acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
periodontal infection	An infectious process affecting the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
periodontal; infection	An infectious process affecting the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
infection; periodontal	An infectious process affecting the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
paradentosis	Inflammation and loss of PERIODONTIUM that is characterized by rapid attachment loss and bone destruction in the presence of little local factors such as DENTAL PLAQUE and DENTAL CALCULUS. This highly destructive form of periodontitis often occurs in young people and was called early-onset periodontitis, but this disease also appears in old people.
localized slight aggressive periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 1-2 millimeters of clinical attachment loss in less than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
localised moderate acute periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 3-4 millimetres of clinical attachment loss in less than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
generalised moderate acute periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 3-4 millimeters of clinical attachment loss in greater than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
aggressive periodontitis	An acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
pyorrhea	Inflammation and loss of connective tissues supporting or surrounding the teeth. This may involve any part of the PERIODONTIUM. Periodontitis is currently classified by disease progression (CHRONIC PERIODONTITIS; AGGRESSIVE PERIODONTITIS) instead of age of onset. (From 1999 International Workshop for a Classification of Periodontal Diseases and Conditions, American Academy of Periodontology)
acute periodontitis nos	An acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
parodontitis	Inflammation and loss of connective tissues supporting or surrounding the teeth. This may involve any part of the PERIODONTIUM. Periodontitis is currently classified by disease progression (CHRONIC PERIODONTITIS; AGGRESSIVE PERIODONTITIS) instead of age of onset. (From 1999 International Workshop for a Classification of Periodontal Diseases and Conditions, American Academy of Periodontology)
paradentiums	The structures surrounding and supporting the tooth. Periodontium includes the gum (GINGIVA), the alveolar bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS), the DENTAL CEMENTUM, and the PERIODONTAL LIGAMENT.
periodontitis; acute	An acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
aggressive and acute periodontitis	An acute inflammatory process that affects the tissues that surround and support the teeth.
jaw region structure	The body region composed of the jaw bones and supporting structures.
periodontium	The structures surrounding and supporting the tooth. Periodontium includes the gum (GINGIVA), the alveolar bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS), the DENTAL CEMENTUM, and the PERIODONTAL LIGAMENT.
inflammation acute	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of neutrophils and/or eosinophils in a tissue sample.
tooth supporting structures	The structures surrounding and supporting the tooth. Periodontium includes the gum (GINGIVA), the alveolar bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS), the DENTAL CEMENTUM, and the PERIODONTAL LIGAMENT.
region of jaw	The body region composed of the jaw bones and supporting structures.
periodontal tissues structure	The structures surrounding and supporting the tooth. Periodontium includes the gum (GINGIVA), the alveolar bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS), the DENTAL CEMENTUM, and the PERIODONTAL LIGAMENT.
periodontitis	Inflammation and loss of connective tissues supporting or surrounding the teeth. This may involve any part of the PERIODONTIUM. Periodontitis is currently classified by disease progression (CHRONIC PERIODONTITIS; AGGRESSIVE PERIODONTITIS) instead of age of onset. (From 1999 International Workshop for a Classification of Periodontal Diseases and Conditions, American Academy of Periodontology)
vincent's gingivitis	An acute or chronic GINGIVITIS characterized by redness and swelling, NECROSIS extending from the interdental papillae along the gingival margins, PAIN; HEMORRHAGE, necrotic odor, and often a pseudomembrane. The condition may extend to the ORAL MUCOSA; TONGUE; PALATE; or PHARYNX. The etiology is somewhat unclear, but may involve a complex of FUSOBACTERIUM NUCLEATUM along with spirochetes BORRELIA or TREPONEMA.
periodontitis aggressive generalized severe	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 5 millimeters or more of clinical attachment loss in greater than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
localized moderate aggressive periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 3-4 millimetres of clinical attachment loss in less than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
generalized moderate acute periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 3-4 millimeters of clinical attachment loss in greater than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
generalized slight aggressive periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 1-2 millimeters of clinical attachment loss in greater than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
periodontal tissue	The structures surrounding and supporting the tooth. Periodontium includes the gum (GINGIVA), the alveolar bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS), the DENTAL CEMENTUM, and the PERIODONTAL LIGAMENT.
localised slight acute periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 1-2 millimeters of clinical attachment loss in less than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
localised severe acute periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 5 millimeters or more of clinical attachment loss in less than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
generalized slight acute periodontitis	Acute separation of the periodontal tissue from the root by 1-2 millimeters of clinical attachment loss in greater than 30% of sites as measured from the cementoenamel junction to the base of the probable pocket (gingival sulcus).
jaw region	The body region composed of the jaw bones and supporting structures.
oral cavity	The oval-shaped oral cavity located at the apex of the digestive tract and consisting of two parts: the vestibule and the oral cavity proper.
neck head	Anatomical cluster which has as direct parts head and neck.
lip and oral cavity	The lips are the structures that surround the mouth, which is the oral aperture that opens into the oral cavity. The oral cavity is the space bounded superiorly by the hard and soft palates, inferiorly by the tongue and laterally by the cheeks.
acute pharyngitis	An acute and painful inflammatory process that affects the pharynx. It is usually caused by viruses and less often bacteria. Signs and symptoms include discomfort on swallowing, low-grade fever, headache, and earache.
inflamed throat	Inflammation of the throat (PHARYNX).
pharyngitis	Inflammation of the throat (PHARYNX).
pharyngitis - acute	An acute and painful inflammatory process that affects the pharynx. It is usually caused by viruses and less often bacteria. Signs and symptoms include discomfort on swallowing, low-grade fever, headache, and earache.
pain pharynx	A disorder characterized by of marked discomfort in the throat
throat pain	A disorder characterized by of marked discomfort in the throat
pharyngeal necrosis	A necrotic process affecting the pharynx.
pharynx; necrosis	A necrotic process affecting the pharynx.
pharyngeal inflammation	Inflammation of the throat (PHARYNX).
pharyngitis nos acute	An acute and painful inflammatory process that affects the pharynx. It is usually caused by viruses and less often bacteria. Signs and symptoms include discomfort on swallowing, low-grade fever, headache, and earache.
streptococcal sore throat	Inflammation of the throat due to Streptococcus pyogenes.
infective tonsillitis	An acute inflammation of the tonsils caused by viruses or bacteria. Signs and symptoms include fever, enlargement of the tonsils, difficulty swallowing, and enlargement of the regional lymph nodes.
pharynx	A funnel-shaped fibromuscular tube that conducts food to the ESOPHAGUS, and air to the LARYNX and LUNGS. It is located posterior to the NASAL CAVITY; ORAL CAVITY; and LARYNX, and extends from the SKULL BASE to the inferior border of the CRICOID CARTILAGE anteriorly and to the inferior border of the C6 vertebra posteriorly. It is divided into the NASOPHARYNX; OROPHARYNX; and HYPOPHARYNX (laryngopharynx).
pharyngitis acute	An acute and painful inflammatory process that affects the pharynx. It is usually caused by viruses and less often bacteria. Signs and symptoms include discomfort on swallowing, low-grade fever, headache, and earache.
inflammation; pharynx	Inflammation of the throat (PHARYNX).
pharyngeal structure	A funnel-shaped fibromuscular tube that conducts food to the ESOPHAGUS, and air to the LARYNX and LUNGS. It is located posterior to the NASAL CAVITY; ORAL CAVITY; and LARYNX, and extends from the SKULL BASE to the inferior border of the CRICOID CARTILAGE anteriorly and to the inferior border of the C6 vertebra posteriorly. It is divided into the NASOPHARYNX; OROPHARYNX; and HYPOPHARYNX (laryngopharynx).
acute phase reactant	blood proteins that are produced in response to acute illness; including fibrinogen, ceruloplasmin, certain enzyme inhibitors and C reactive protein.
haptoglobin	Plasma glycoproteins that form a stable complex with hemoglobin to aid the recycling of heme iron. They are encoded in man by a gene on the short arm of chromosome 16.
acute phase proteins	blood proteins that are produced in response to acute illness; including fibrinogen, ceruloplasmin, certain enzyme inhibitors and C reactive protein.
transferrin	An iron-binding beta1-globulin that is synthesized in the LIVER and secreted into the blood. It plays a central role in the transport of IRON throughout the circulation. A variety of transferrin isoforms exist in humans, including some that are considered markers for specific disease states.
acute-phase response	An early local inflammatory reaction to insult or injury that consists of fever, an increase in inflammatory humoral factors, and an increased synthesis by hepatocytes of a number of proteins or glycoproteins usually found in the plasma.
acute inflammatory response	Inflammation which comprises a rapid, short-lived, relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid, plasma proteins, and granulocytic leukocytes. An acute inflammatory response occurs within a matter of minutes or hours, and either resolves within a few days or becomes a chronic inflammatory response. [GO_REF:0000022, GOC:add, ISBN:0781735149]
acute phase response	An early local inflammatory reaction to insult or injury that consists of fever, an increase in inflammatory humoral factors, and an increased synthesis by hepatocytes of a number of proteins or glycoproteins usually found in the plasma.
erythrocyte sedimentation rate increased	An increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). The ESR is a test that measures the distance that erythrocytes have fallen after one hour in a vertical column of anticoagulated blood under the influence of gravity. The ESR is a nonspecific finding. An elevation may indicate inflammation or may be caused by any condition that elevates fibrinogen. [PMID:10524488]
increased serum ferritin level	Increased concentration of ferritin in the blood circulation. [HPO:probinson]
acute-phase reaction	An early local inflammatory reaction to insult or injury that consists of fever, an increase in inflammatory humoral factors, and an increased synthesis by hepatocytes of a number of proteins or glycoproteins usually found in the plasma.
elevated hepcidin level	An abnormally increased concentration of hepcidin in the blood circulation. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16450011]
acute phase reactions	An early local inflammatory reaction to insult or injury that consists of fever, an increase in inflammatory humoral factors, and an increased synthesis by hepatocytes of a number of proteins or glycoproteins usually found in the plasma.
elevated circulating amyloid a	An increased concentration of serum amyloid A in the blood circulation. [PMID:30165816]
acute tonsillitis	An acute inflammation of the tonsils caused by viruses or bacteria. Signs and symptoms include fever, enlargement of the tonsils, difficulty swallowing, and enlargement of the regional lymph nodes.
tonsillitis	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
tonsil inflammation	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
tonsillitis acute	An acute inflammation of the tonsils caused by viruses or bacteria. Signs and symptoms include fever, enlargement of the tonsils, difficulty swallowing, and enlargement of the regional lymph nodes.
head and neck	Anatomical cluster which has as direct parts head and neck.
microbial	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
tonsilla palatina	En rund till avlång massa av lymfvävnad inbäddad i svalgets sidovägg, en på vardera sidan, mellan den mjuka gommens främre och bakre bågar.
infectious agents	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
microorganisms	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
tonsillitis nos	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
throat infection - tonsillitis	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
tonsil; inflammation	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
inflammation of tonsil	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
palatine tonsil	En rund till avlång massa av lymfvävnad inbäddad i svalgets sidovägg, en på vardera sidan, mellan den mjuka gommens främre och bakre bågar.
tonsillar inflammation	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
inflammation of the tonsils	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
tonsils inflammation	Inflammation of the tonsils, especially the PALATINE TONSILS but the ADENOIDS (pharyngeal tonsils) and lingual tonsils may also be involved. Tonsillitis usually is caused by bacterial infection. Tonsillitis may be acute, chronic, or recurrent.
angina tonsillary	An accumulation of purulent material in the area between the PALATINE TONSIL and its capsule.
tonsillar structure	En rund till avlång massa av lymfvävnad inbäddad i svalgets sidovägg, en på vardera sidan, mellan den mjuka gommens främre och bakre bågar.
acute mesenteric ischaemia	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
intestine	The section of the alimentary canal from the STOMACH to the ANAL CANAL. It includes the LARGE INTESTINE and SMALL INTESTINE.
acute intestinal vascular insufficiency	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
vessel	Any of the tubular vessels conveying the blood (arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins).
acute intestinal ischaemia	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
ami - acute mesenteric ischaemia	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
acute vascular insufficiency of intestine	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
mesenteric vascular insufficiencies	Ischemic tissue injury produced by insufficient perfusion of intestinal tissue by the MESENTERIC CIRCULATION (i.e., CELIAC ARTERY; SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; INFERERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; and MESENTERIC VEINS). It can progress from ISCHEMIA; EDEMA; and GANGRENE of the bowel wall to PERITONITIS and cardiovascular collapse.
acute mesenteric ischemia	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
mesenteric vascular insufficiency	Ischemic tissue injury produced by insufficient perfusion of intestinal tissue by the MESENTERIC CIRCULATION (i.e., CELIAC ARTERY; SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; INFERERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; and MESENTERIC VEINS). It can progress from ISCHEMIA; EDEMA; and GANGRENE of the bowel wall to PERITONITIS and cardiovascular collapse.
ischemia; mesenteric	Ischemic tissue injury produced by insufficient perfusion of intestinal tissue by the MESENTERIC CIRCULATION (i.e., CELIAC ARTERY; SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; INFERERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; and MESENTERIC VEINS). It can progress from ISCHEMIA; EDEMA; and GANGRENE of the bowel wall to PERITONITIS and cardiovascular collapse.
mesenteric angina	Ischemic tissue injury produced by insufficient perfusion of intestinal tissue by the MESENTERIC CIRCULATION (i.e., CELIAC ARTERY; SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; INFERERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; and MESENTERIC VEINS). It can progress from ISCHEMIA; EDEMA; and GANGRENE of the bowel wall to PERITONITIS and cardiovascular collapse.
acute intestinal ischemia	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
ischemia intest	Restriction of arterial blood supply to a testis associated with insufficient oxygenation to support the metabolic requirements of the digit. Acute intestinal ischemia can involve the small or large intestine, and usually presents with sudden severe non-specific abdominal pain. [PMID:30306080]
intestines	The section of the alimentary canal from the STOMACH to the ANAL CANAL. It includes the LARGE INTESTINE and SMALL INTESTINE.
ami - acute mesenteric ischemia	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
bowels	The section of the alimentary canal from the STOMACH to the ANAL CANAL. It includes the LARGE INTESTINE and SMALL INTESTINE.
mesenteric ischemia	Ischemic tissue injury produced by insufficient perfusion of intestinal tissue by the MESENTERIC CIRCULATION (i.e., CELIAC ARTERY; SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; INFERERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY; and MESENTERIC VEINS). It can progress from ISCHEMIA; EDEMA; and GANGRENE of the bowel wall to PERITONITIS and cardiovascular collapse.
acute intestinal ischemic syndrome	Ischemia of the intestine that is rapid in onset.
vascular insufficiency of the intestine	Restriction of arterial blood supply to a testis associated with insufficient oxygenation to support the metabolic requirements of the digit. Acute intestinal ischemia can involve the small or large intestine, and usually presents with sudden severe non-specific abdominal pain. [PMID:30306080]
blood vessel	Any of the tubular vessels conveying the blood (arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins).
cardiovascular system	The HEART and the BLOOD VESSELS by which BLOOD is pumped and circulated through the body.
ischemia	A hypoperfusion of the BLOOD through an organ or tissue caused by a PATHOLOGIC CONSTRICTION or obstruction of its BLOOD VESSELS, or an absence of BLOOD CIRCULATION.
massive hepatic necrosis	Omfattande och snabb parenkymcelldöd i levern, ofta efter exponering för giftiga ämnen. Tillståndet kännetecknas av mjuk, sladdrig, gulbrun, skrynklig och skrumpen lever, och har kallats akut, gul atrofi.
acute yellow atrophies	Omfattande och snabb parenkymcelldöd i levern, ofta efter exponering för giftiga ämnen. Tillståndet kännetecknas av mjuk, sladdrig, gulbrun, skrynklig och skrumpen lever, och har kallats akut, gul atrofi.
acute yellow atrophy of liver	Omfattande och snabb parenkymcelldöd i levern, ofta efter exponering för giftiga ämnen. Tillståndet kännetecknas av mjuk, sladdrig, gulbrun, skrynklig och skrumpen lever, och har kallats akut, gul atrofi.
structure of liver	A large lobed glandular organ in the abdomen of vertebrates that is responsible for detoxification, metabolism, synthesis and storage of various substances.
acute yellow atrophy	Omfattande och snabb parenkymcelldöd i levern, ofta efter exponering för giftiga ämnen. Tillståndet kännetecknas av mjuk, sladdrig, gulbrun, skrynklig och skrumpen lever, och har kallats akut, gul atrofi.
atrophied	Decrease in the size of a cell, tissue, organ, or multiple organs, associated with a variety of pathological conditions such as abnormal cellular changes, ischemia, malnutrition, or hormonal changes.
acute atrophy yellow	Omfattande och snabb parenkymcelldöd i levern, ofta efter exponering för giftiga ämnen. Tillståndet kännetecknas av mjuk, sladdrig, gulbrun, skrynklig och skrumpen lever, och har kallats akut, gul atrofi.
necrosis of liver	A necrotic process affecting the hepatic parenchyma.
acute hepatic necrosis	Omfattande och snabb parenkymcelldöd i levern, ofta efter exponering för giftiga ämnen. Tillståndet kännetecknas av mjuk, sladdrig, gulbrun, skrynklig och skrumpen lever, och har kallats akut, gul atrofi.
hepatic necrosis	A necrotic process affecting the hepatic parenchyma.
atrophy acute yellow liver	Omfattande och snabb parenkymcelldöd i levern, ofta efter exponering för giftiga ämnen. Tillståndet kännetecknas av mjuk, sladdrig, gulbrun, skrynklig och skrumpen lever, och har kallats akut, gul atrofi.
acyclovir	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
dhpg sodium	The sodium salt form of ganciclovir, a synthetic, antiviral, purine nucleoside analog with antiviral activity, especially against cytomegalovirus (CMV). Ganciclovir sodium is a prodrug that is phosphorylated and subsequently converted into its triphosphate form, the active metabolite ganciclovir-5-triphosphate (ganciclovir-TP), in the infected cells by cellular kinases. Ganciclovir-TP competes as a substrate with nucleotide triphosphates for viral DNA polymerase. Once it gets incorporated into DNA strand, it prevents further polymerization of DNA, thereby interfering with viral DNA replication.
aciclovirum	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
desciclovir	A prodrug of acyclovir with activity against viruses in the herpesvirus family. Desciclovir is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is converted to acyclovir by xanthine oxidase. Acyclovir is further converted to cyclovir triphosphate by viral thymidine kinase and competitively inhibits viral DNA polymerase by incorporating into the growing viral DNA chain and terminating further polymerization.
acyclovir [skin]	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
aciclovir [eyes]	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
aciclovir sodium	The sodium salt form of acyclovir, a synthetic analog of the purine nucleoside, guanosine, with potent antiviral activity against herpes simplex viruses type 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus and other viruses of the herpesvirus family. After conversion in vivo to the active metabolite acyclovir triphosphate by viral thymidine kinase, acyclovir competitively inhibits viral DNA polymerase by incorporating into the growing viral DNA chain and terminating further polymerization.
antiviral drug	Agents used in the prophylaxis or therapy of VIRUS DISEASES. Some of the ways they may act include preventing viral replication by inhibiting viral DNA polymerase; binding to specific cell-surface receptors and inhibiting viral penetration or uncoating; inhibiting viral protein synthesis; or blocking late stages of virus assembly.
acyclovir [systemic]	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
acyclovir sodium	The sodium salt form of acyclovir, a synthetic analog of the purine nucleoside, guanosine, with potent antiviral activity against herpes simplex viruses type 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus and other viruses of the herpesvirus family. After conversion in vivo to the active metabolite acyclovir triphosphate by viral thymidine kinase, acyclovir competitively inhibits viral DNA polymerase by incorporating into the growing viral DNA chain and terminating further polymerization.
aciclovir	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
chickenpox	A highly contagious infectious disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus (HERPESVIRUS 3, HUMAN). It usually affects children, is spread by direct contact or respiratory route via droplet nuclei, and is characterized by the appearance on the skin and mucous membranes of successive crops of typical pruritic vesicular lesions that are easily broken and become scabbed. Chickenpox is relatively benign in children, but may be complicated by pneumonia and encephalitis in adults. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
chicken pox infection	A highly contagious infectious disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus (HERPESVIRUS 3, HUMAN). It usually affects children, is spread by direct contact or respiratory route via droplet nuclei, and is characterized by the appearance on the skin and mucous membranes of successive crops of typical pruritic vesicular lesions that are easily broken and become scabbed. Chickenpox is relatively benign in children, but may be complicated by pneumonia and encephalitis in adults. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
aciclovir - chemical	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
cytomegaloviral disease	Infection with CYTOMEGALOVIRUS, characterized by enlarged cells bearing intranuclear inclusions. Infection may be in almost any organ, but the salivary glands are the most common site in children, as are the lungs in adults.
product containing acyclovir	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
allergic drug reaction	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
fever blister	Herpes simplex, caused by type 1 virus, primarily spread by oral secretions and usually occurring as a concomitant of fever. It may also develop in the absence of fever or prior illness. It commonly involves the facial region, especially the lips and the nares. (Dorland, 27th ed.)
herpes simplex	A group of acute infections caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 or type 2 that is characterized by the development of one or more small fluid-filled vesicles with a raised erythematous base on the skin or mucous membrane. It occurs as a primary infection or recurs due to a reactivation of a latent infection. (Dorland, 27th ed.)
herpes zona	An acute infectious, usually self-limited, disease believed to represent activation of latent varicella-zoster virus (HERPESVIRUS 3, HUMAN) in those who have been rendered partially immune after a previous attack of CHICKENPOX. It involves the SENSORY GANGLIA and their areas of innervation and is characterized by severe neuralgic pain along the distribution of the affected nerve and crops of clustered vesicles over the area. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
encephalitis herpes	Proceso inflamatorio agudo (o raramente crónico) del cerebro producido por infecciones por SIMPLEXVIRUS que pueden ser fatales. La mayoría de las infecciones son ocasionadas por el herpesvirus 1 humano (HERPESVIRUS 1, HUMANO) y menos a menudo por el herpesvirus 2 (HERPESVIRUS 2, HUMANO). Las manifestaciones clínicas incluyen FIEBRE; CEFALEAS; CONVULSIONES; ALUCINACIONES; trastornos de la conducta; AFASIA; hemiparesias; y COMA. Patológicamente, la afección se caracteriza por una necrosis hemorrágica en la que participan los LÓBULOS TEMPORALES y las regiones orbitales de los LÓBULOS FRONTALES.
aciclovir in ophthalmic dosage form	A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite. Viruses are especially susceptible. Used especially against herpes.
fatty acyl coa	S-Acyl coenzyme A. Fatty acid coenzyme A derivatives that are involved in the biosynthesis and oxidation of fatty acids as well as in ceramide formation.
hmg-coa	An intermediate for the synthesis of mevalonic acid, ketone bodies and cholesterol and a metabolic product for leucine; it can be formed de novo from acetyl coenzyme A (CoA) and acetoacetyl CoA by HMG-CoA (3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl-Coenzyme A) synthase.
acyl coa	S-Acyl coenzyme A. Fatty acid coenzyme A derivatives that are involved in the biosynthesis and oxidation of fatty acids as well as in ceramide formation.
acylation	The addition of an organic acid radical into a molecule.
biochemical reactions	In living cells, chemical reactions that help sustain life and allow cells to grow.
biochemical processes	A linked series of non-equivalent biochemical interactions and enzymatic reactions, and/or a linked series of biochemical processes.
acyltransferase	Enzymes from the transferase class that catalyze the transfer of acyl groups from donor to acceptor, forming either esters or amides. (From Enzyme Nomenclature 1992) EC 2.3.
histone acetyltransferase	Enzimas que catalizan la transferencia del grupo acilo desde el ACETIL-CoA a las HISTONAS formando CoA y acetil-histonas.
histone acetylase	Enzimas que catalizan la transferencia del grupo acilo desde el ACETIL-CoA a las HISTONAS formando CoA y acetil-histonas.
ubiquitin conjugating enzyme	A class of enzymes that form a thioester bond to UBIQUITIN with the assistance of UBIQUITIN-ACTIVATING ENZYMES. They transfer ubiquitin to the LYSINE of a substrate protein with the assistance of UBIQUITIN-PROTEIN LIGASES.
lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase epsilon	1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase epsilon (364 aa, ~42 kDa) is encoded by the human AGPAT5 gene. This protein plays a role in the synthesis of phosphatidic acid from lysophosphatidic acid.
type i n-myristoyltransferase	Glycylpeptide N-tetradecanoyltransferase 1 (496 aa, ~57 kDa) is encoded by the human NMT1 gene. This protein is involved in the irreversible transfer of myristoyl groups from tetradecanoyl-CoA to N-terminal glycines of protein substrates.
enzyme gene	Enzyme Genes encode Enzymes, biological molecules (usually proteins) that possess catalytic activity. Catalytic RNA and catalytic DNA molecules have also been identified. (NCI)
substrate domain	A Substrate Domain is a protein region that physically interacts stereospecifically, and usually at high affinity, with a specific target substrate. In enzymes, the substrate domain is often, though not necessarily, coincident with the catalytic domain. Typically, substrate interaction results in some protein conformational alteration and functional modification. (NCI)
adamantane	A tricyclo bridged hydrocarbon.
opaganib	An orally available, aryladamantane compound and selective inhibitor of sphingosine kinase-2 (SK2) with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon administration, opaganib competitively binds to and inhibits SK2, thereby preventing the phosphorylation of the pro-apoptotic amino alcohol sphingosine to sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P), the lipid mediator that is pro-survival and critical for immunomodulation. This may eventually lead to the induction of apoptosis and may result in an inhibition of cell proliferation in cancer cells overexpressing SK2. SK2 and its isoenzyme SK1 are overexpressed in numerous cancer cell types.
diamantane	A tricyclo bridged hydrocarbon.
amantadine	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
adam-stokes syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
isoproterenol	Isopropyl analog of EPINEPHRINE; beta-sympathomimetic that acts on the heart, bronchi, skeletal muscle, alimentary tract, etc. It is used mainly as bronchodilator and heart stimulant.
morgagni-adam's stokes syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
fosphenytoin sodium	The sodium salt form of fosphenytoin, a prodrug that is hydrolyzed to the anticonvulsant phenytoin upon parental administration. Phenytoin exerts its effect most likely through an enhancement of sodium efflux from neurons in the motor cortex. This leads to a suppression of excessive neuronal firing and spread of seizure activity. Other physiologic effects from actions of phenytoin include modulation of the voltage-dependent calcium channels of neurons, inhibition of calcium flux across neuronal membranes and enhancement of sodium-potassium ATPase activity of neurons and glial cells. (NCI05)
stokes adams attacks	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
heart block	Impaired conduction of cardiac impulse that can occur anywhere along the conduction pathway, such as between the SINOATRIAL NODE and the right atrium (SA block) or between atria and ventricles (AV block). Heart blocks can be classified by the duration, frequency, or completeness of conduction block. Reversibility depends on the degree of structural or functional defects.
stokes-adams; attack	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
conducting heart system	An impulse-conducting system composed of modified cardiac muscle, having the power of spontaneous rhythmicity and conduction more highly developed than the rest of the heart.
stokes-adams attack	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
syncope and collapse	A transient loss of consciousness and postural tone caused by diminished blood flow to the brain (i.e., BRAIN ISCHEMIA). Presyncope refers to the sensation of lightheadedness and loss of strength that precedes a syncopal event or accompanies an incomplete syncope. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp367-9)
stokes adams syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
diminished	A subjective response indicating that something is or has decreased.
spens' syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
level of consciousness	The level of awareness of an organism.
sensorium	The level of awareness of an organism.
stokes-adams syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
[d]fainting	A transient loss of consciousness and postural tone caused by diminished blood flow to the brain (i.e., BRAIN ISCHEMIA). Presyncope refers to the sensation of lightheadedness and loss of strength that precedes a syncopal event or accompanies an incomplete syncope. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp367-9)
adams stokes syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
brain	The part of CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM that is contained within the skull (CRANIUM). Arising from the NEURAL TUBE, the embryonic brain is comprised of three major parts including PROSENCEPHALON (the forebrain); MESENCEPHALON (the midbrain); and RHOMBENCEPHALON (the hindbrain). The developed brain consists of CEREBRUM; CEREBELLUM; and other structures in the BRAIN STEM.
stokes-adams attacks	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
adams-stokes syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
mobitz ii atrioventricular block	A disorder characterized by a dysrhythmia with relatively constant PR interval prior to the block of an atrial impulse. This is the result of intermittent failure of atrial electrical impulse conduction through the atrioventricular (AV) node to the ventricles.
stokes-adams	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
decreased	A subjective response indicating that something is or has decreased.
stokes-adams: [syndrome] or [attack]	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
morgagni's disease	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
transient -retired-	Not permanent; not lasting; lacking continuity or regularity.
adams attack stoke	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
cstate	The level of awareness of an organism.
adams stoke syndrome	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
cardiac conduction system diseases	A disorder affecting the conduction system that sends electrical signals in the myocardium.
cardiac conduction disorder	A disorder affecting the conduction system that sends electrical signals in the myocardium.
conduction disorders nos	A disorder affecting the conduction system that sends electrical signals in the myocardium.
conduction disorders	A disorder affecting the conduction system that sends electrical signals in the myocardium.
disorder of heart conduction	A disorder affecting the conduction system that sends electrical signals in the myocardium.
[d]syncope and collapse nos	A transient loss of consciousness and postural tone caused by diminished blood flow to the brain (i.e., BRAIN ISCHEMIA). Presyncope refers to the sensation of lightheadedness and loss of strength that precedes a syncopal event or accompanies an incomplete syncope. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp367-9)
circulatory system	The HEART and the BLOOD VESSELS by which BLOOD is pumped and circulated through the body.
adams stokes attack	A condition of fainting spells caused by heart block, often an atrioventricular block, that leads to BRADYCARDIA and drop in CARDIAC OUTPUT. When the cardiac output becomes too low, the patient faints (SYNCOPE). In some cases, the syncope attacks are transient and in others cases repetitive and persistent.
heart conduction systems	An impulse-conducting system composed of modified cardiac muscle, having the power of spontaneous rhythmicity and conduction more highly developed than the rest of the heart.
primary adrenal insufficiency	A hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands fail to release adequate amounts of glucocorticoids (cortisol), mineralocorticoids (aldosterone, 11-deoxycorticosterone), and androgens (dehydroepiandrosterone) to meet physiologic needs, despite release of ACTH from the pituitary.
familial adrenal hypoplasia miniature type	A rare endocrine disease characterised by a miniature adult type of congenital adrenal hypoplasia (residual adrenal cortex is composed of a small amount of permanent adult cortex with normal structural organisation), selective absence of pituitary luteinising hormone in otherwise normal brain and neonatal demise. Patients present with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, hypoglycaemia, seizures, encephalopathy and diabetes insipidus. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
addisons disease	disease characterized by hypotension, weight loss, anorexia, weakness, and sometimes a bronze-like melanotic hyperpigmentation of the skin; due to tuberculosis or autoimmune induced disease (hypofunction) of the adrenal glands that results in deficiency of aldosterone and cortisol.
adrenal insufficiency	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
addison's disease	disease characterized by hypotension, weight loss, anorexia, weakness, and sometimes a bronze-like melanotic hyperpigmentation of the skin; due to tuberculosis or autoimmune induced disease (hypofunction) of the adrenal glands that results in deficiency of aldosterone and cortisol.
insufficiency; adrenal	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
adrenal gland disease	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
hypocortisolism	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
addison's disease nos	disease characterized by hypotension, weight loss, anorexia, weakness, and sometimes a bronze-like melanotic hyperpigmentation of the skin; due to tuberculosis or autoimmune induced disease (hypofunction) of the adrenal glands that results in deficiency of aldosterone and cortisol.
adrenal cortical hypofunction	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
addison; disease or syndrome	disease characterized by hypotension, weight loss, anorexia, weakness, and sometimes a bronze-like melanotic hyperpigmentation of the skin; due to tuberculosis or autoimmune induced disease (hypofunction) of the adrenal glands that results in deficiency of aldosterone and cortisol.
adrenal insufficiencies	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
adrenal cortex insufficiency	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
adrenal cortex	The outer layer of the adrenal gland. It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE. Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
magnesium oxide	Magnesium oxide (MgO). An inorganic compound that occurs in nature as the mineral periclase. In aqueous media combines quickly with water to form magnesium hydroxide. It is used as an antacid and mild laxative and has many nonmedicinal uses.
addison disease	disease characterized by hypotension, weight loss, anorexia, weakness, and sometimes a bronze-like melanotic hyperpigmentation of the skin; due to tuberculosis or autoimmune induced disease (hypofunction) of the adrenal glands that results in deficiency of aldosterone and cortisol.
product containing magnesium sulfate	A small colorless crystal used as an anticonvulsant, a cathartic, and an electrolyte replenisher in the treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. It causes direct inhibition of action potentials in myometrial muscle cells. Excitation and contraction are uncoupled, which decreases the frequency and force of contractions. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1083)
potassium citrate	A powder that dissolves in water, which is administered orally, and is used as a diuretic, expectorant, systemic alkalizer, and electrolyte replenisher.
primary hypoadrenalism	disease characterized by hypotension, weight loss, anorexia, weakness, and sometimes a bronze-like melanotic hyperpigmentation of the skin; due to tuberculosis or autoimmune induced disease (hypofunction) of the adrenal glands that results in deficiency of aldosterone and cortisol.
pediatric endocrine terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events in the pediatric population that are related to endocrine disorders.
peritoneum and retroperitoneum	A term that refers to the peritoneum and the space behind it (retroperitoneum).
adenine	A purine base and a fundamental unit of ADENINE NUCLEOTIDES.
remofovir	A cyclodiester antiviral prodrug with specific activity against hepatitis B virus (HBV). Pradefovir is specifically metabolized in the liver by hepatic enzymes, mainly by CYP4503A4, to adefovir. In turn, adefovir is phosphorylated by cellular kinases to its activated form adevofir diphosphate. By competing with the natural substrate dATP, the diphosphate form is incorporated into viral DNA and inhibits RNA-dependent DNA polymerase. This causes DNA chain termination and eventually results in an inhibition of HBV replication.
galidesivir	An adenosine analog and RNA polymerase inhibitor, with potential broad-spectrum antiviral activity. Upon administration, galidesivir is metabolized to its monophosphate form, which is then converted into the active triphosphate nucleotide. Galidesivir triphosphate binds to viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and gets incorporated into the growing viral RNA strand, which leads to premature chain termination. This prevents viral transcription and replication.
puquitinib	An orally available selective inhibitor of the delta form of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase subunit delta; PI3K-delta; PI3Kdelta), with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, puquitinib selectively binds to the ATP-binding pocket of PI3K-delta and prevents the activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. This decreases proliferation of and induces cell death in PI3K-delta over-expressing tumor cells. PI3K-delta also plays a key role in the B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathway and the proliferation of certain hematologic cancer cells. The targeted inhibition of PI3K-delta is designed to preserve PI3K signaling in normal, non-neoplastic cells, thereby minimizing serious side effects.
purines	One of two chemical compounds that cells use to make the building blocks of DNA and RNA. Examples of purines are adenine and guanine. Purines are also found in meat and meat products. They are broken down by the body to form uric acid, which is passed in the urine. High levels of uric acid in the body may cause gout.
medication allergy	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
nutritional metab dis	A collective term for nutritional disorders resulting from poor absorption or nutritional imbalance, and metabolic disorders resulting from defects in biosynthesis (ANABOLISM) or breakdown (CATABOLISM) of endogenous substances.
purine	One of two chemical compounds that cells use to make the building blocks of DNA and RNA. Examples of purines are adenine and guanine. Purines are also found in meat and meat products. They are broken down by the body to form uric acid, which is passed in the urine. High levels of uric acid in the body may cause gout.
genus dependovirus	A genus of the family PARVOVIRIDAE, subfamily PARVOVIRINAE, which are dependent on a coinfection with helper adenoviruses or herpesviruses for their efficient replication. The type species is Adeno-associated virus 2.
parvovirus	A genus of the family PARVOVIRIDAE, subfamily PARVOVIRINAE, infecting a variety of vertebrates including humans. Parvoviruses are responsible for a number of important diseases but also can be non-pathogenic in certain hosts. The type species is MINUTE VIRUS OF MICE.
adeno associated virus	A genus of the family PARVOVIRIDAE, subfamily PARVOVIRINAE, which are dependent on a coinfection with helper adenoviruses or herpesviruses for their efficient replication. The type species is Adeno-associated virus 2.
parvovirus group	A genus of the family PARVOVIRIDAE, subfamily PARVOVIRINAE, infecting a variety of vertebrates including humans. Parvoviruses are responsible for a number of important diseases but also can be non-pathogenic in certain hosts. The type species is MINUTE VIRUS OF MICE.
[m]adenocarcinoma nos	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
thiotepa	A very toxic alkylating antineoplastic agent also used as an insect sterilant. It causes skin, gastrointestinal, CNS, and bone marrow damage. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), thiotepa may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen (Merck Index, 11th ed).
adenocarcinoma	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
adenocarcinoma of esophagus	A malignant tumor with glandular differentiation arising predominantly from Barrett mucosa in the lower third of the esophagus. Rare examples of esophageal adenocarcinoma deriving from ectopic gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus have also been reported. Grossly, esophageal adenocarcinomas are similar to esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Microscopically, adenocarcinomas arising in the setting of Barrett esophagus are typically papillary and/or tubular. The prognosis is poor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4025" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4025" NCI Thesaurus)
oxyphilic adenocarcinoma	A malignant neoplasm composed of large epithelial cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm (oncocytes).
adenocarcinoma nos	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
papillary adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma containing finger-like processes of vascular connective tissue covered by neoplastic epithelium, projecting into cysts or the cavity of glands or follicles. It occurs most frequently in the ovary and thyroid gland. (Stedman, 25th ed)
carcinoma in adenoma	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
bronchioalveolar lung carcinoma	A carcinoma derived from epithelium of terminal bronchioles, in which the neoplastic tissue extends along the alveolar walls and grows in small masses within the alveoli. Involvement may be uniformly diffuse and massive, or nodular, or lobular. The neoplastic cells are cuboidal or columnar and form papillary structures. Mucin may be demonstrated in some of the cells and in the material in the alveoli, which also includes denuded cells. Metastases in regional lymph nodes, and in even more distant sites, are known to occur, but are infrequent. (From Stedman, 25th ed)
malignant neoplasm adenocarcinoma scirrhous	An adenocarcinoma with a hard (Greek skirrhos, hard) structure owing to the formation of dense connective tissue in the stroma. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
tubular adenocarcinoma	A malignant glandular neoplasm exhibiting tubular structures.
trabecular adenocarcinoma	A malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of a trabecular glandular architectural pattern.
malignant adenoma	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
adenocarcinoma in tubulovillous adenoma	A non-invasive or invasive adenocarcinoma arising from a tubulovillous adenoma.
mixed cell adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a mixed malignant glandular cell population.
carcinoma in adenomatous polyp	A non-invasive or invasive adenocarcinoma arising from the neoplastic glandular cells in an adenomatous polyp.
cancer	A malignant tumor at the original site of growth.
adenocarcinomas	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
colloid carcinoma	An adenocarcinoma producing mucin in significant amounts. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
acinar adenocarcinoma	A malignant tumor arising from secreting cells of a racemose gland, particularly the salivary glands. Racemose (Latin racemosus, full of clusters) refers, as does acinar (Latin acinus, grape), to small saclike dilatations in various glands. Acinar cell carcinomas are usually well differentiated and account for about 13% of the cancers arising in the parotid gland. Lymph node metastasis occurs in about 16% of cases. Local recurrences and distant metastases many years after treatment are common. This tumor appears in all age groups and is most common in women. (Stedman, 25th ed; Holland et al., Cancer Medicine, 3d ed, p1240; from DeVita Jr et al., Cancer: Principles & Practice of Oncology, 3d ed, p575)
renal cell adenocarcinoma	A heterogeneous group of sporadic or hereditary carcinoma derived from cells of the KIDNEYS. There are several subtypes including the clear cells, the papillary, the chromophobe, the collecting duct, the spindle cells (sarcomatoid), or mixed cell-type carcinoma.
pulmonary adenocarcinoma	A carcinoma originating in the lung and the most common lung cancer type in never-smokers. Malignant cells exhibit distinct features such as glandular epithelial, or tubular morphology. Mutations in KRAS, EGFR, BRAF, and ERBB2 genes are associated with this cancer.
hurthle cell; carcinoma	A malignant neoplasm composed of large epithelial cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm (oncocytes).
sebaceous gland carcinoma	A malignant tumor composed of cells showing differentiation toward sebaceous epithelium. The tumor is solitary, firm, somewhat raised, more or less translucent, and covered with normal or slightly verrucose epidermis. It may be yellow or orange. The face and scalp are the commonest sites. The growth can be slow or rapid but metastasis is uncommon. Surgery cures most of the cases. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 4th ed, pp2403-4)
adrenocortical carcinoma	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
cystadenocarcinoma of the pancreas	A cystic adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas. It includes the acinar cell and serous cystadenocarcinoma subtypes.
parafollicular cell carcinoma	two types are found, familial and sporadic; if familial, the carcinoma is bilateral and may be associated with other benign or malignant endocrine organ tumors; if sporadic, it is unilateral; thyroidectomy and radiation therapy are treatments of choice.
adenocarcinoma of the small intestine	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the small intestine. []
esophagus adenocarcinoma	A malignant tumor with glandular differentiation arising predominantly from Barrett mucosa in the lower third of the esophagus. Rare examples of esophageal adenocarcinoma deriving from ectopic gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus have also been reported. Grossly, esophageal adenocarcinomas are similar to esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Microscopically, adenocarcinomas arising in the setting of Barrett esophagus are typically papillary and/or tubular. The prognosis is poor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4025" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4025" NCI Thesaurus)
pancreatic adenocarcinoma	The presence of an adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
serous surface papillary carcinoma	A rare malignant tumor of the peritoneal cavity of extra-ovarian origin. Clinically and histologically similar to advanced-stage serous ovarian carcinoma. It is almost exclusively found in women. Can occur many years after oophorectomy performed for benign diseases or prophylactic oophorectomy. The tumor develops in the peritoneum and spreads to the abdomen, pelvis and ovaries.Primary peritoneal carcinoma has an epithelial origin and probably derives from embryonal epithelium. The fallopian tubes are suspected as the primary site.
adenoid cystic carcinoma of trachea	An adenoid cystic carcinoma that arises from the trachea. It spreads to the submucosal tracheal tissue and to regional lymph nodes.
scirrhous carcinoma of breast	An infiltrating ductal breast carcinoma associated with stromal fibrosis.
multilocular cystic renal cell cancer	A rare kidney neoplasm of low malignant potential. It is a well-circumscribed multicystic mass without solid areas. The inner lining of the cystic structures is composed of clear cells. It usually presents as a unilateral solitary mass.
breast adenocarcinoma	The most common histologic type of breast carcinoma. Representative examples include invasive ductal carcinoma not otherwise specified, ductal carcinoma in situ, inflammatory carcinoma, secretory carcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, tubular carcinoma, invasive lobular carcinoma, and lobular carcinoma in situ.
hereditary papillary renal cell carcinoma	A familial carcinoma inherited in an autosomal dominant trait. It is characterized by the development of multiple, bilateral papillary renal cell carcinomas. The carcinomas range from microscopic lesions to clinically symptomatic tumors. It is associated with activating mutations of the MET oncogene.
renal collecting duct carcinoma	Also known as collecting duct carcinoma, this is a rare type of renal carcinoma. It arises from the collecting ducts of the renal medulla, and most authors suggest that this is an aggressive tumor.
colorectal adenocarcinoma	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the large intestine. []
mucinous carcinoma of breast	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by the presence of islands of small and uniform cells, surrounded by large amounts of mucin. Pure mucinous breast carcinomas generally have a favorable prognosis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9131" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9131" NCI Thesaurus)
clear cell adenocarcinoma of peritoneum	An extremely rare adenocarcinoma arising from the peritoneum. It is composed of malignant glandular epithelium containing clear cells.
neopl malignant epithelial	A malignant neoplasm made up of epithelial cells tending to infiltrate the surrounding tissues and give rise to metastases. It is a histological type of neoplasm and not a synonym for "cancer."
carcinoma of adrenal cortex	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
lung adenocarcinoma	A carcinoma originating in the lung and the most common lung cancer type in never-smokers. Malignant cells exhibit distinct features such as glandular epithelial, or tubular morphology. Mutations in KRAS, EGFR, BRAF, and ERBB2 genes are associated with this cancer.
mixed adenocarcinoma and epidermoid carcinoma	A mixed adenocarcinoma and squamous cell or epidermoid carcinoma.
carcinoma of sebaceous gland	A malignant tumor composed of cells showing differentiation toward sebaceous epithelium. The tumor is solitary, firm, somewhat raised, more or less translucent, and covered with normal or slightly verrucose epidermis. It may be yellow or orange. The face and scalp are the commonest sites. The growth can be slow or rapid but metastasis is uncommon. Surgery cures most of the cases. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 4th ed, pp2403-4)
medullary carcinoma of thyroid	two types are found, familial and sporadic; if familial, the carcinoma is bilateral and may be associated with other benign or malignant endocrine organ tumors; if sporadic, it is unilateral; thyroidectomy and radiation therapy are treatments of choice.
renal cystadenocarcinoma	A rare kidney neoplasm of low malignant potential. It is a well-circumscribed multicystic mass without solid areas. The inner lining of the cystic structures is composed of clear cells. It usually presents as a unilateral solitary mass.
adenocarcinoma of the breast	The most common histologic type of breast carcinoma. Representative examples include invasive ductal carcinoma not otherwise specified, ductal carcinoma in situ, inflammatory carcinoma, secretory carcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, tubular carcinoma, invasive lobular carcinoma, and lobular carcinoma in situ.
bellini duct carcinoma	Also known as collecting duct carcinoma, this is a rare type of renal carcinoma. It arises from the collecting ducts of the renal medulla, and most authors suggest that this is an aggressive tumor.
malignant cylindroma	A carcinoma that arises in a cylindroma.
large intestine adenocarcinoma	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the large intestine. []
breast mucinous carcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by the presence of islands of small and uniform cells, surrounded by large amounts of mucin. Pure mucinous breast carcinomas generally have a favorable prognosis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9131" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9131" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of paratestis	A rare urogenital neoplasm with characteristics of a gland-forming epithelial neoplasm arising from paratesticular structures, typically manifesting with a palpable scrotal mass, with or without hydrocele, and/or testicular pain.
primary peritoneal clear cell carcinoma	An extremely rare adenocarcinoma arising from the peritoneum. It is composed of malignant glandular epithelium containing clear cells.
mucous adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma producing mucin in significant amounts. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
carcinoma oncocytic	A malignant neoplasm composed of large epithelial cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm (oncocytes).
sebaceous carcinoma	A malignant tumor composed of cells showing differentiation toward sebaceous epithelium. The tumor is solitary, firm, somewhat raised, more or less translucent, and covered with normal or slightly verrucose epidermis. It may be yellow or orange. The face and scalp are the commonest sites. The growth can be slow or rapid but metastasis is uncommon. Surgery cures most of the cases. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 4th ed, pp2403-4)
malignant tumour	new abnormal tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease; tumors perform no useful body function and may be benign or malignant; benign neoplasms are a noncancerous growth that does not invade nearby tissue or spread to other parts of the body; malignant neoplasms or cancer show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis; neoplasm terms herein do not distinguish between benign or malignant states, use references listed to cover this concept.
hurthle cell adenocarcinoma	A malignant neoplasm composed of large epithelial cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm (oncocytes).
prostate adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the prostate gland. It is one of the most common malignant tumors afflicting men. The majority of adenocarcinomas arise in the peripheral zone and a minority occurs in the central or the transitional zone of the prostate gland. Grading of prostatic adenocarcinoma predicts disease progression and correlates with survival. Several grading systems have been proposed, of which the Gleason system is the most commonly used. Gleason sums of 2 to 4 represent well-differentiated disease, 5 to 7 moderately differentiated disease and 8 to 10 poorly differentiated disease. Prostatic-specific antigen (PSA) serum test is widely used as a screening test for the early detection of prostatic adenocarcinoma. Treatment options include radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy, androgen ablation and cryotherapy. Watchful waiting or surveillance alone is an option for older patients with low-grade or low-stage disease. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2919" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2919" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of prostate	An adenocarcinoma arising from the prostate gland. It is one of the most common malignant tumors afflicting men. The majority of adenocarcinomas arise in the peripheral zone and a minority occurs in the central or the transitional zone of the prostate gland. Grading of prostatic adenocarcinoma predicts disease progression and correlates with survival. Several grading systems have been proposed, of which the Gleason system is the most commonly used. Gleason sums of 2 to 4 represent well-differentiated disease, 5 to 7 moderately differentiated disease and 8 to 10 poorly differentiated disease. Prostatic-specific antigen (PSA) serum test is widely used as a screening test for the early detection of prostatic adenocarcinoma. Treatment options include radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy, androgen ablation and cryotherapy. Watchful waiting or surveillance alone is an option for older patients with low-grade or low-stage disease. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2919" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2919" NCI Thesaurus)
bronchioalveolar adenocarcinoma of lung	A carcinoma derived from epithelium of terminal bronchioles, in which the neoplastic tissue extends along the alveolar walls and grows in small masses within the alveoli. Involvement may be uniformly diffuse and massive, or nodular, or lobular. The neoplastic cells are cuboidal or columnar and form papillary structures. Mucin may be demonstrated in some of the cells and in the material in the alveoli, which also includes denuded cells. Metastases in regional lymph nodes, and in even more distant sites, are known to occur, but are infrequent. (From Stedman, 25th ed)
extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the epithelium of the extrahepatic bile duct. Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain, anorexia, jaundice, pruritus, nausea and vomiting, and weight loss. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7975" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7975" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder	A rare adenocarcinoma arising from metaplastic bladder epithelium. It is frequently associated with long-standing local irritation. The majority of cases originate from the trigone and the posterior wall of the bladder. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4032" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4032" NCI Thesaurus)
malignant adenomas	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
adenocarcinoma of the parathyroid	A malignant tumor arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid gland. It is associated with the symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism, resulting from the excessive production of parathyroid hormone. Morphologically, the differential diagnosis from parathyroid gland adenoma may be difficult. A definitive diagnosis of carcinoma is made only in the presence of capsular invasion, vascular invasion, and/or perineural invasion.
adenocarcinoma ovaries	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary. It is the most common type of ovarian carcinoma. It includes the serous adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, clear cell adenocarcinoma, and endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
adenocarcinoma of uterus	An adenocarcinoma arising from the uterine body cavity. This is the most frequent malignant tumor affecting the uterine body, and is linked to estrogen therapy. Most patients present with uterine bleeding and are over age 40 at the time of diagnosis. The prognosis depends on the stage of the tumor, the depth of the uterine wall invasion, and the histologic subtype. Endometrioid adenocarcinoma is the most frequently seen morphologic variant of endometrial adenocarcinoma. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7359" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7359" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of cecum	An adenocarcinoma arising from the cecum. It is more frequently seen in populations with a Western type diet and in patients with a history of chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Histologic variants include mucinous adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, serrated adenocarcinoma, cribriform comedo-type adenocarcinoma, and micropapillary adenocarcinoma.
adenocarcinoma of the cecum	An adenocarcinoma arising from the cecum. It is more frequently seen in populations with a Western type diet and in patients with a history of chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Histologic variants include mucinous adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, serrated adenocarcinoma, cribriform comedo-type adenocarcinoma, and micropapillary adenocarcinoma.
adenocarcinoma of oral cavity	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the oral cavity.
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	A carcinoma occurring almost exclusively in adults that probably arises from the pancreatic duct epithelium. Most pancreatic carcinomas are ductal adenocarcinomas of which about two-thirds involve the head, with the remainder in the body and tail of the pancreas. The patients are usually over 50 years of age. Pain, jaundice, and loss of weight are the most common manifestations. Ductal adenocarcinomas usually grow rapidly and are discovered after they have already spread beyond the pancreas. Grossly, ductal adenocarcinomas are firm and poorly defined masses. Microscopically, most ductal adenocarcinomas are characterized by well-developed glandular structures embedded in a desmoplastic stroma. Ductal adenocarcinomas are fatal in the vast majority of cases (WHO 2000). Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9120" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9120" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of the epididymis	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the epididymis. It usually presents as a scrotal mass and may be associated with testicular pain.
mucinous carcinoma	An adenocarcinoma producing mucin in significant amounts. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
malignant adenomatous neoplasm	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
acinar carcinoma	A malignant tumor arising from secreting cells of a racemose gland, particularly the salivary glands. Racemose (Latin racemosus, full of clusters) refers, as does acinar (Latin acinus, grape), to small saclike dilatations in various glands. Acinar cell carcinomas are usually well differentiated and account for about 13% of the cancers arising in the parotid gland. Lymph node metastasis occurs in about 16% of cases. Local recurrences and distant metastases many years after treatment are common. This tumor appears in all age groups and is most common in women. (Stedman, 25th ed; Holland et al., Cancer Medicine, 3d ed, p1240; from DeVita Jr et al., Cancer: Principles & Practice of Oncology, 3d ed, p575)
cystadenocarcinoma nos	A malignant neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium, in which cystic accumulations of retained secretions are formed. The neoplastic cells manifest varying degrees of anaplasia and invasiveness, and local extension and metastases occur. Cystadenocarcinomas develop frequently in the ovaries, where pseudomucinous and serous types are recognized. (Stedman, 25th ed)
adenocarcinomas lung	A carcinoma originating in the lung and the most common lung cancer type in never-smokers. Malignant cells exhibit distinct features such as glandular epithelial, or tubular morphology. Mutations in KRAS, EGFR, BRAF, and ERBB2 genes are associated with this cancer.
adenocarcinoma of appendix	A malignant neoplasm arising from the glandular epithelium of the appendix with invasion of the appendiceal wall beyond the muscularis mucosa. The majority of cases are well differentiated adenocarcinomas with mucinous stroma formation. Clinically, it may present as an abdominal mass or with symptoms of acute appendicitis. Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis are at a higher risk in developing appendiceal adenocarcinomas compared to the general population.
adenocarcinoma of the esophagus	A malignant tumor with glandular differentiation arising predominantly from Barrett mucosa in the lower third of the esophagus. Rare examples of esophageal adenocarcinoma deriving from ectopic gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus have also been reported. Grossly, esophageal adenocarcinomas are similar to esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Microscopically, adenocarcinomas arising in the setting of Barrett esophagus are typically papillary and/or tubular. The prognosis is poor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4025" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4025" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of the bladder	A rare adenocarcinoma arising from metaplastic bladder epithelium. It is frequently associated with long-standing local irritation. The majority of cases originate from the trigone and the posterior wall of the bladder. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4032" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4032" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of caecum	An adenocarcinoma arising from the cecum. It is more frequently seen in populations with a Western type diet and in patients with a history of chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Histologic variants include mucinous adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, serrated adenocarcinoma, cribriform comedo-type adenocarcinoma, and micropapillary adenocarcinoma.
acinar cell adenocarcinoma	A malignant tumor arising from secreting cells of a racemose gland, particularly the salivary glands. Racemose (Latin racemosus, full of clusters) refers, as does acinar (Latin acinus, grape), to small saclike dilatations in various glands. Acinar cell carcinomas are usually well differentiated and account for about 13% of the cancers arising in the parotid gland. Lymph node metastasis occurs in about 16% of cases. Local recurrences and distant metastases many years after treatment are common. This tumor appears in all age groups and is most common in women. (Stedman, 25th ed; Holland et al., Cancer Medicine, 3d ed, p1240; from DeVita Jr et al., Cancer: Principles & Practice of Oncology, 3d ed, p575)
acinic cell adenocarcinomas	A malignant tumor arising from secreting cells of a racemose gland, particularly the salivary glands. Racemose (Latin racemosus, full of clusters) refers, as does acinar (Latin acinus, grape), to small saclike dilatations in various glands. Acinar cell carcinomas are usually well differentiated and account for about 13% of the cancers arising in the parotid gland. Lymph node metastasis occurs in about 16% of cases. Local recurrences and distant metastases many years after treatment are common. This tumor appears in all age groups and is most common in women. (Stedman, 25th ed; Holland et al., Cancer Medicine, 3d ed, p1240; from DeVita Jr et al., Cancer: Principles & Practice of Oncology, 3d ed, p575)
acinar carcinomas	A malignant tumor arising from secreting cells of a racemose gland, particularly the salivary glands. Racemose (Latin racemosus, full of clusters) refers, as does acinar (Latin acinus, grape), to small saclike dilatations in various glands. Acinar cell carcinomas are usually well differentiated and account for about 13% of the cancers arising in the parotid gland. Lymph node metastasis occurs in about 16% of cases. Local recurrences and distant metastases many years after treatment are common. This tumor appears in all age groups and is most common in women. (Stedman, 25th ed; Holland et al., Cancer Medicine, 3d ed, p1240; from DeVita Jr et al., Cancer: Principles & Practice of Oncology, 3d ed, p575)
scirrhous adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma with a hard (Greek skirrhos, hard) structure owing to the formation of dense connective tissue in the stroma. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
sebaceous adenocarcinoma	A malignant tumor composed of cells showing differentiation toward sebaceous epithelium. The tumor is solitary, firm, somewhat raised, more or less translucent, and covered with normal or slightly verrucose epidermis. It may be yellow or orange. The face and scalp are the commonest sites. The growth can be slow or rapid but metastasis is uncommon. Surgery cures most of the cases. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 4th ed, pp2403-4)
adenocarcinoma adrenal	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
serous cystadenocarcinoma	A malignant cystic or semicystic neoplasm. It often occurs in the ovary and usually bilaterally. The external surface is usually covered with papillary excrescences. Microscopically, the papillary patterns are predominantly epithelial overgrowths with differentiated and undifferentiated papillary serous cystadenocarcinoma cells. Psammoma bodies may be present. The tumor generally adheres to surrounding structures and produces ascites. (From Hughes, Obstetric-Gynecologic Terminology, 1972, p185)
chcc-cca	A rare tumor containing unequivocal elements of both hepatocellular and cholangiocarcinoma that are intimately admixed. This tumor should be distinguished from separate hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma arising in the same liver. The prognosis of this tumor is poor.
esophageal adenocarcinoma	A malignant tumor with glandular differentiation arising predominantly from Barrett mucosa in the lower third of the esophagus. Rare examples of esophageal adenocarcinoma deriving from ectopic gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus have also been reported. Grossly, esophageal adenocarcinomas are similar to esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Microscopically, adenocarcinomas arising in the setting of Barrett esophagus are typically papillary and/or tubular. The prognosis is poor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4025" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4025" NCI Thesaurus)
vaginal adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the vagina. Morphologic variants include the clear cell, endometrioid, mesonephric, and mucinous adenocarcinoma.
cervix uteri adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the cervical epithelium. It accounts for approximately 15% of invasive cervical carcinomas. Increased numbers of sexual partners and human papilloma virus (HPV) infection are risk factors. Grossly, advanced cervical adenocarcinoma may present as an exophytic mass, an ulcerated lesion, or diffuse cervical enlargement. Microscopically, the majority of cervical adenocarcinomas are of the endocervical (mucinous) type. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4029" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4029" NCI Thesaurus)
salivary gland adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the salivary gland. It includes the salivary gland polymorphous low grade adenocarcinoma, salivary gland oncocytic carcinoma, salivary gland mucinous adenocarcinoma, salivary gland low grade cribriform cystadenocarcinoma, salivary gland cystadenocarcinoma, salivary gland basal cell adenocarcinoma, salivary gland acinic cell carcinoma, salivary duct carcinoma, and salivary gland adenocarcinoma not otherwise specified. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8021" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8021" NCI Thesaurus)
trabecular carcinoma	A malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of a trabecular glandular architectural pattern.
carcinoma - diffuse type	An adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a diffuse cellular infiltrate which is composed of poorly cohesive cells with minimal or no glandular formations. Representative example is the gastric diffuse adenocarcinoma.
carcinoma mucin secreting	An invasive adenocarcinoma composed of malignant glandular cells which produce mucin.
cancer of the pituitary gland	A pituitary tumor with subarachnoid, brain, or systemic metastasis. The diagnosis of a pituitary carcinoma requires evidence of metastatic disease, either outside the central nervous system (CNS) or as separate noncontiguous foci within the CNS. [DDD:spark, NCIT:C4536, PMID:15741248]
adenocarcinoma of the lacrimal gland	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the lacrimal gland.
adenocarcinoma with metaplasia	An adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of metaplasia.
adenocarcinoma of breast	The most common histologic type of breast carcinoma. Representative examples include invasive ductal carcinoma not otherwise specified, ductal carcinoma in situ, inflammatory carcinoma, secretory carcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, tubular carcinoma, invasive lobular carcinoma, and lobular carcinoma in situ.
adenocarcinoma of the ovary	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary. It is the most common type of ovarian carcinoma. It includes the serous adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, clear cell adenocarcinoma, and endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
adenocarcinoma in adenomatous polyp	A non-invasive or invasive adenocarcinoma arising from the neoplastic glandular cells in an adenomatous polyp.
adenocarcinoma of anus	An adenocarcinoma arising in the anal canal epithelium, including the mucosal surface, the anal glands, and the lining of fistulous tracts. The prognosis is related to the stage at diagnosis.
middle ear adenocarcinoma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the middle ear.
adenocarcinoma of mouth	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the oral cavity.
urethra adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the male or female urethra.
vulvar adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising in the vulva. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23761517]
paget disease	A malignant neoplasm composed of large cells with large nuclei, prominent nucleoli, and abundant pale cytoplasm (Paget cells). Paget cell neoplasms include Paget disease of the nipple and extramammary Paget disease which may affect the vulva, penis, anus, skin and scrotum.
carcinoma of sweat gland	A carcinoma arising from the sweat glands. Representative examples include tubular carcinoma, spiradenocarcinoma, eccrine carcinoma, hidradenocarcinoma, and apocrine carcinoma.
adenocarcinoma of epididymis	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the epididymis. It usually presents as a scrotal mass and may be associated with testicular pain.
seminal vesicle adenocarcinoma	An extremely rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the seminal vesicle.
liver carcinoma	A primary malignant neoplasm of epithelial liver cells. It ranges from a well-differentiated tumor with EPITHELIAL CELLS indistinguishable from normal HEPATOCYTES to a poorly differentiated neoplasm. The cells may be uniform or markedly pleomorphic, or form GIANT CELLS. Several classification schemes have been suggested.
recurrent adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that has recurred after a period of remission.
adnexal secretory carcinoma	A rare adnexal carcinoma that is histopathologically identical to homologous lesions in the salivary gland and breast. (WHO 2018)
primary peritoneal adenocarcinoma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the lining of the peritoneum.
retinal pigment epithelium adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the retinal pigment epithelium. The prognosis is good if the tumor has not extended extraocularly.
ciliary body adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the pigmented or non-pigmented ciliary epithelium.
lacrimal drainage system adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the lacrimal sac or nasolacrimal duct.
psammocarcinoma	An extremely rare variant of serous carcinoma arising from the ovary or peritoneum. It is characterized by extensive formation of psammoma bodies, low-grade cytological features, and invasion of surrounding structures.
carcinoma	A malignant neoplasm made up of epithelial cells tending to infiltrate the surrounding tissues and give rise to metastases. It is a histological type of neoplasm and not a synonym for "cancer."
epitheliocyte	Cells that line the inner and outer surfaces of the body by forming cellular layers (EPITHELIUM) or masses. Epithelial cells lining the SKIN; the MOUTH; the NOSE; and the ANAL CANAL derive from ectoderm; those lining the RESPIRATORY SYSTEM and the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM derive from endoderm; others (CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM and LYMPHATIC SYSTEM) derive from mesoderm. Epithelial cells can be classified mainly by cell shape and function into squamous, glandular and transitional epithelial cells.
epithelium	The layers of EPITHELIAL CELLS which cover the inner and outer surfaces of the cutaneous, mucus, and serous tissues and glands of the body.
malignant tumor cells	Cells of, or derived from, a malignant tumor.
somatostatin	This gene is involved in the regulation of the endocrine system.
sst wt allele	Human SST wild-type allele is located in the vicinity of 3q28 and is approximately 2 kb in length. This allele, which encodes somatostatin protein, is involved in the modulation of both hormone levels and neurotransmission.
send-neoplasm	The terminology that includes concepts relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Standard for the Exchange of Non-clinical Data (SEND) tumor findings character results.
adenocarcinoma of mouse colon	An adenocarcinoma arising from the colon of a mouse. It can be used as a mouse model of the human disease.
ncit neoplasm core terminology	A core reference set of NCIt neoplasm classification concepts to facilitate consistent coding, analysis, and data sharing across a broad range of NCI and related resources.
growth hormone release-inhibiting factor	Somatostatin (116 aa, ~13 kDa) is encoded by the human SST gene. This protein plays a role in the downregulation of sematotropin release.
somatic-type malignancy	A malignant non-germ cell component that typically develops secondarily within a germ cell tumor. The malignant cellular component is usually sarcomatous or carcinomatous.
adenocarcinoma papillary	An adenocarcinoma containing finger-like processes of vascular connective tissue covered by neoplastic epithelium, projecting into cysts or the cavity of glands or follicles. It occurs most frequently in the ovary and thyroid gland. (Stedman, 25th ed)
thyroid papillary carcinoma	Cancer that forms in follicular cells in the thyroid and grows in small finger-like shapes. It grows slowly, is more common in women than in men, and often occurs before age 45. It is the most common type of thyroid cancer.
hereditary papillary renal carcinoma	A familial carcinoma inherited in an autosomal dominant trait. It is characterized by the development of multiple, bilateral papillary renal cell carcinomas. The carcinomas range from microscopic lesions to clinically symptomatic tumors. It is associated with activating mutations of the MET oncogene.
primary malignant neoplasm	A malignant tumor at the original site of growth.
papillary adenocarcinoma nos	An adenocarcinoma containing finger-like processes of vascular connective tissue covered by neoplastic epithelium, projecting into cysts or the cavity of glands or follicles. It occurs most frequently in the ovary and thyroid gland. (Stedman, 25th ed)
papillary cancer of thyroid gland	Cancer that forms in follicular cells in the thyroid and grows in small finger-like shapes. It grows slowly, is more common in women than in men, and often occurs before age 45. It is the most common type of thyroid cancer.
primary peritoneal serous carcinoma	A rare malignant tumor of the peritoneal cavity of extra-ovarian origin. Clinically and histologically similar to advanced-stage serous ovarian carcinoma. It is almost exclusively found in women. Can occur many years after oophorectomy performed for benign diseases or prophylactic oophorectomy. The tumor develops in the peritoneum and spreads to the abdomen, pelvis and ovaries.Primary peritoneal carcinoma has an epithelial origin and probably derives from embryonal epithelium. The fallopian tubes are suspected as the primary site.
papillary renal cell carcinoma	The presence of renal cell carcinoma in the renal papilla. [HPO:probinson]
papillary adenocarcinoma of the lung	A morphologic variant of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of papillary structures.
papillary adenocarcinomas	An adenocarcinoma containing finger-like processes of vascular connective tissue covered by neoplastic epithelium, projecting into cysts or the cavity of glands or follicles. It occurs most frequently in the ovary and thyroid gland. (Stedman, 25th ed)
papillary carcinoma nos	A malignant neoplasm characterized by the formation of numerous, irregular, finger-like projections of fibrous stroma that is covered with a surface layer of neoplastic epithelial cells. (Stedman, 25th ed)
[m]papillary adenocarcinoma nos	An adenocarcinoma containing finger-like processes of vascular connective tissue covered by neoplastic epithelium, projecting into cysts or the cavity of glands or follicles. It occurs most frequently in the ovary and thyroid gland. (Stedman, 25th ed)
intrahepatic bile duct	Passages within the liver for the conveyance of bile. Includes right and left hepatic ducts even though these may join outside the liver to form the common hepatic duct.
textus epithelialis	The layers of EPITHELIAL CELLS which cover the inner and outer surfaces of the cutaneous, mucus, and serous tissues and glands of the body.
extrahepatic biliary tree	Passages external to the liver for the conveyance of bile. These include the COMMON BILE DUCT and the common hepatic duct (HEPATIC DUCT, COMMON).
benign tumour cells	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of a cellular infiltrate without atypia in a tumor sample.
pseudopapillary pattern	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of poorly cohesive neoplastic cells arranged around fibrovascular cores in a tissue sample.
[m]adenofibroma nos	A benign neoplasm composed of glandular and fibrous tissues, with a relatively large proportion of glands. (Stedman, 25th ed)
[m]adenoma nos	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
benign adenofibroma	A benign neoplasm composed of glandular and fibrous tissues, with a relatively large proportion of glands. (Stedman, 25th ed)
adenoma benign nos	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
adenofibroma	A benign neoplasm composed of glandular and fibrous tissues, with a relatively large proportion of glands. (Stedman, 25th ed)
adenoma	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
tumor of the gland	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
benign adenomatous neoplasm	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
nonmalignant neoplasm	<p>Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain.</p> <p>Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor.</p> <p>Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Cancer Institute</p>
adenoidectomy	Excision of the adenoids. (Dorland, 28th ed)
pharyngeal tonsil	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
head and neck surgery	Any surgery involving a structure in the head and neck region.
adenoidectomies	Excision of the adenoids. (Dorland, 28th ed)
tonsilla pharyngealis	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
cptac procedures codelist	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on medical procedures.
adenoidectomy without tonsillectomy	Excision of the adenoids. (Dorland, 28th ed)
pharyngeal tonsils	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
adenoidal structure	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
adenoidectomy procedure	Excision of the adenoids. (Dorland, 28th ed)
incision and removal	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
excision of adenoid	Excision of the adenoids. (Dorland, 28th ed)
surgical removal	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
adenoids	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
removal	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
adenoid	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
removal of adenoids	Excision of the adenoids. (Dorland, 28th ed)
removal technique	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
adenoiditis	An inflammation of the adenoid tissue. []
abnormality of nasopharyngeal tonsil	Any abnormality of nasopharyngeal adenoids. []
nasopharyngitis nos	Inflammation of the NASOPHARYNX, usually including its mucosa, related lymphoid structure, and glands.
inflammation of adenoids	An inflammation of the adenoid tissue. []
nasopharyngitis	Inflammation of the NASOPHARYNX, usually including its mucosa, related lymphoid structure, and glands.
tonsillar ring	The ring of lymphoid tissue located in the pharynx, consisting of the pharyngeal, tubal, palatine, and lingual tonsils. (NCI)
tonsil	The two organs situated in the throat on either side of the narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx. They are composed of lymphoid tissues.
waldeyer ring structure	The ring of lymphoid tissue located in the pharynx, consisting of the pharyngeal, tubal, palatine, and lingual tonsils. (NCI)
lymphatic tissue	Specialized tissues that are components of the lymphatic system. They provide fixed locations within the body where a variety of LYMPHOCYTES can form, mature and multiply. The lymphoid tissues are connected by a network of LYMPHATIC VESSELS.
lymphatic organs	Specialized tissues that are components of the lymphatic system. They provide fixed locations within the body where a variety of LYMPHOCYTES can form, mature and multiply. The lymphoid tissues are connected by a network of LYMPHATIC VESSELS.
nasopharyngeal	The top portion of the pharynx situated posterior to the nose and superior to the SOFT PALATE. The nasopharynx is the posterior extension of the nasal cavities and has a respiratory function.
tonsil of luschka	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
posterior wall of nasopharynx	The dorsal portion of the nasopharyngeal cavity that contains the pharyngeal tonsil.
tonsila pharyngealis	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
biopsy of adenoids	Removal of tissue from the pharyngeal tonsil for microscopic examination.
tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy	Surgical removal of the tonsils and adenoids.
increased size of nasopharyngeal adenoids	An abnormal increase in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids. []
posterior nasopharynx	The dorsal portion of the nasopharyngeal cavity that contains the pharyngeal tonsil.
tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy	Surgical removal of the tonsils and adenoids.
adenoids large	An abnormal increase in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids. []
nasopharyngeal tonsil	A collection of lymphoid nodules on the posterior wall and roof of the NASOPHARYNX.
adenoid excision	Excision of the adenoids. (Dorland, 28th ed)
structure of immune system	The body's defense mechanism against foreign organisms or substances and deviant native cells. It includes the humoral immune response and the cell-mediated response and consists of a complex of interrelated cellular, molecular, and genetic components.
adenolymphoma	A benign tumor characterized histologically by tall columnar epithelium within a lymphoid tissue stroma. It is usually found in the salivary glands, especially the parotid.
benign salivary gland tumor	A benign neoplasm that arises from the major or minor salivary glands. Representative examples include Warthin tumor, monomorphic adenoma, and pleomorphic adenoma.
salivary structure	Lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate the oral cavity. Examples: parotid gland, sublingual gland, lingual salivary gland.
papillary cystadenoma lymphomatosum	A benign tumor characterized histologically by tall columnar epithelium within a lymphoid tissue stroma. It is usually found in the salivary glands, especially the parotid.
ben neo major salivary	A benign neoplasm that arises from the major salivary glands. Representative examples include Warthin tumor, monomorphic adenoma, and pleomorphic adenoma.
warthin's tumor	A benign tumor characterized histologically by tall columnar epithelium within a lymphoid tissue stroma. It is usually found in the salivary glands, especially the parotid.
benign neoplasm of salivary gland	A benign neoplasm that arises from the major or minor salivary glands. Representative examples include Warthin tumor, monomorphic adenoma, and pleomorphic adenoma.
salivary gland	Lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate the oral cavity. Examples: parotid gland, sublingual gland, lingual salivary gland.
lacrimal gland warthin tumor	A rare benign tumor that arises from the lacrimal gland. It is characterized by an oncocytic epithelial component and dense lymphoid stroma.
adenomas	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
encapsulated neoplasm	A neoplasm surrounded by a fibrous capsule.
epithelial cell	Cells that line the inner and outer surfaces of the body by forming cellular layers (EPITHELIUM) or masses. Epithelial cells lining the SKIN; the MOUTH; the NOSE; and the ANAL CANAL derive from ectoderm; those lining the RESPIRATORY SYSTEM and the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM derive from endoderm; others (CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM and LYMPHATIC SYSTEM) derive from mesoderm. Epithelial cells can be classified mainly by cell shape and function into squamous, glandular and transitional epithelial cells.
epithelial tissues	The layers of EPITHELIAL CELLS which cover the inner and outer surfaces of the cutaneous, mucus, and serous tissues and glands of the body.
squamous metaplasia	A morphologic finding indicating the transformation of glandular or transitional epithelial cells to, usually, mature squamous epithelial cells. Representative examples include squamous metaplasia of bronchial epithelium, cervix, urinary bladder, and prostate gland.
warthin tumor	A benign tumor characterized histologically by tall columnar epithelium within a lymphoid tissue stroma. It is usually found in the salivary glands, especially the parotid.
lymphocytic infiltrate	A morphologic finding referring to the presence of a cellular infiltrate that is composed of non-neoplastic or neoplastic lymphocytes in a tissue sample.
warthin's tumour	A benign tumor characterized histologically by tall columnar epithelium within a lymphoid tissue stroma. It is usually found in the salivary glands, especially the parotid.
malignant cells	Cells of, or derived from, a malignant tumor.
tumor warthins	A benign tumor characterized histologically by tall columnar epithelium within a lymphoid tissue stroma. It is usually found in the salivary glands, especially the parotid.
head and neck structure	Anatomical cluster which has as direct parts head and neck.
borderline lesion	A lesion characterized by the presence of atypical or low-grade neoplastic cells, which may or may not exhibit stromal microinvasion and cannot be qualified as completely malignant.
encapsulated	Confined to a specific, localized area and surrounded by a thin layer of tissue.
papillary pattern	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of a cellular infiltrate with papillary growth in a tissue sample.
cystic changes	A microscopic finding indicating the formation of cystic structures in a tissue sample.
tumor warthin's	A benign tumor characterized histologically by tall columnar epithelium within a lymphoid tissue stroma. It is usually found in the salivary glands, especially the parotid.
endocrine-stromal cell	A cell that forms the supporting matrix of one of the glands that secretes substances into the blood or lymph.
neoplasm benign;site unspecifi	<p>Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain.</p> <p>Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor.</p> <p>Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Cancer Institute</p>
adenolymphoma of parotid gland	An adenoma that arises from the parotid gland. It is characterized by an oncocytic, often papillary, epithelial component, dense lymphoid stroma, and cystic spaces. A strong association with smoking has been reported. It typically presents as a painless swelling in the lower portion of the parotid gland.
warthin's tumour of parotid gland	An adenoma that arises from the parotid gland. It is characterized by an oncocytic, often papillary, epithelial component, dense lymphoid stroma, and cystic spaces. A strong association with smoking has been reported. It typically presents as a painless swelling in the lower portion of the parotid gland.
parotid gland warthin tumor	An adenoma that arises from the parotid gland. It is characterized by an oncocytic, often papillary, epithelial component, dense lymphoid stroma, and cystic spaces. A strong association with smoking has been reported. It typically presents as a painless swelling in the lower portion of the parotid gland.
warthin tumour of parotid gland	An adenoma that arises from the parotid gland. It is characterized by an oncocytic, often papillary, epithelial component, dense lymphoid stroma, and cystic spaces. A strong association with smoking has been reported. It typically presents as a painless swelling in the lower portion of the parotid gland.
wolffian adnexal neoplasm	A benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm of probable Wolffian origin. It predominantly arises from the broad ligament and presents as a unilateral adnexal mass.
adenoma nos	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
fibroadenomas	An adenoma containing fibrous tissue. It should be differentiated from ADENOFIBROMA which is a tumor composed of connective tissue (fibroma) containing glandular (adeno-) structures. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
bile duct adenoma	A benign tumor of the intrahepatic bile ducts.
hidradenoma	A benign neoplasm derived from epithelial cells of sweat glands. (Stedman, 25th ed)
bronchial adenoma	Cancer that forms in tissues of the bronchi (large air passages in the lungs including those that lead to the lungs from the windpipe).
[m]adenomas	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
adrenocortical adenoma	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
parathyroid gland adenoma	A neoplasm arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid glands. In the vast majority of cases, the tumor involves a single parathyroid gland. It is associated with the symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism, resulting from the excessive production of parathyroid hormone. It is usually surrounded by a well-defined capsule. Capsular invasion, vascular invasion, and perineural invasion are absent. Overall cure rates are excellent following excision of the abnormal gland(s).
tubular adenoma	A benign neoplasm arising from glandular epithelium, characterized by a tubular architectural pattern.
juxtaglomerular tumor	A benign, well circumscribed neoplasm arising from the cortex of the kidney. It secrets renin and the patients usually present with severe hypertension and marked hypokalemia. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of sheets of polygonal or spindle-shaped neoplastic cells forming a hemangiopericytic pattern.
apocrine adenoma	A benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the apocrine sweat glands. Representative examples include tubular apocrine adenoma and external auditory canal ceruminous adenoma.
benign adenoma	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
adenoma of lung	A benign, well circumscribed epithelial neoplasm that arises from the bronchus or the lung parenchyma. Representative examples include alveolar adenoma, papillary adenoma, and mucus gland adenoma.
ovarian mucinous cystadenoma	A benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by mucinous columnar epithelial cells.
adenoma benign	A benign epithelial tumor with a glandular organization.
renal neoplasm cortical adenoma	The presence of an adenoma in the cortex of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
fuchs' adenoma	A benign proliferation of the pars plicata epithelium of the ciliary body. It is associated with aging..
retinocytoma	A rare, unilateral or bilateral benign neoplasm that arises from the retina. There is an increased risk of malignant transformation to retinoblastoma; therefore, patients with a diagnosis of retinocytoma should be closely observed.
prostate; adenoma	Focal benign glandular hyperplasia in the prostate gland.
adenoma of the small intestine	A neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the small intestine. It is a polypoid or flat circumscribed lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by a proliferation of neoplastic glandular cells and it is associated with dysplasia. According to the growth pattern, it may be classified as tubular, villous, or tubulovillous.
adenoma of large intestine	An adenoma that arises from the colon or rectum. The group of colorectal adenomas includes tubular, villous, and tubulovillous adenomas, traditional serrated adenomas, sessile serrated adenomas/polyps, and familial adenomatous polyposis.
adenoma of middle ear	A benign, well-circumscribed glandular neoplasm that arises from the middle ear and may exhibit neuroendocrine differentiation. It usually presents with conductive hearing loss.
oncocytoma of the salivary gland	A benign epithelial neoplasm composed of layers of oncocytes (small round nucleus, micro-granular, eosinophilic cytoplasm with numerous tightly-packed mitochondria) [NCIT:C5932, PMID:20181155]
apocrine cystadenoma	A slow-growing, usually solitary, dome-shaped benign sweat gland adenoma, most frequently located on the eyelid. It is characterized by a cystic proliferation of apocrine glands. Surgical excision is curative.
heffner tumor	A rare, low-grade malignant epithelial tumor arising from the endolymphatic sac in the temporal bone. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of papillary and cystic structures. As tumors grow, they may destroy petrous temporal bone and extend into the middle ear and the middle and posterior cranial fossae and into the cerebellopontine angle. (WHO 2017)
adenoma gastric	A neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach. This category includes intestinal-type adenomatous polyps, gastric-type adenomas, and fundic gland polyps.
benign neoplasms	<p>Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain.</p> <p>Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor.</p> <p>Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Cancer Institute</p>
benign neoplasm	<p>Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain.</p> <p>Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor.</p> <p>Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Cancer Institute</p>
adenoma; hepatocellular	A benign epithelial tumor of the LIVER.
parathyroid adenoma	A neoplasm arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid glands. In the vast majority of cases, the tumor involves a single parathyroid gland. It is associated with the symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism, resulting from the excessive production of parathyroid hormone. It is usually surrounded by a well-defined capsule. Capsular invasion, vascular invasion, and perineural invasion are absent. Overall cure rates are excellent following excision of the abnormal gland(s).
[m]juxtaglomerular tumor	A benign, well circumscribed neoplasm arising from the cortex of the kidney. It secrets renin and the patients usually present with severe hypertension and marked hypokalemia. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of sheets of polygonal or spindle-shaped neoplastic cells forming a hemangiopericytic pattern.
adenoma of the nipple	A benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the nipple. Signs and symptoms include serous or sanguineous nipple discharge and nipple erosion. It is characterized by the presence of aggregates of small tubules replacing the nipple stroma. The tubules are lined by epithelial and myoepithelial cells.
cystadenoma of pancreas	A non-metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas.
trichoadenoma of nikolowski	A rare benign tumor of the hair follicle occurring usually in the face or buttocks.
ovarian serous cystadenoma	A cystic tumor of the ovary, containing thin, clear, yellow serous fluid and varying amounts of solid tissue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23766763]
mucinous cystadenoma of ovary	A benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by mucinous columnar epithelial cells.
renal oncocytoma	A renal tumor originating from an oncocyte, which is an epithelial cell characterized by an excessive amount of mitochondria, resulting in an abundant acidophilic, granular cytoplasm. [DDD:rscott]
coronal adenoma	A benign proliferation of the pars plicata epithelium of the ciliary body. It is associated with aging..
retinoma	A rare, unilateral or bilateral benign neoplasm that arises from the retina. There is an increased risk of malignant transformation to retinoblastoma; therefore, patients with a diagnosis of retinocytoma should be closely observed.
uterine cervix polyp	A polyp that arises from the surface of the cervix.
adenoma of small intestine	A neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the small intestine. It is a polypoid or flat circumscribed lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by a proliferation of neoplastic glandular cells and it is associated with dysplasia. According to the growth pattern, it may be classified as tubular, villous, or tubulovillous.
lung mucous gland adenoma	A benign adenomatous neoplasm that arises from the mucous glands in the bronchus.
middle ear adenoma	A benign, well-circumscribed glandular neoplasm that arises from the middle ear and may exhibit neuroendocrine differentiation. It usually presents with conductive hearing loss.
apocrine hidrocystoma	A slow-growing, usually solitary, dome-shaped benign sweat gland adenoma, most frequently located on the eyelid. It is characterized by a cystic proliferation of apocrine glands. Surgical excision is curative.
endolymphatic sac tumour	A rare, low-grade malignant epithelial tumor arising from the endolymphatic sac in the temporal bone. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of papillary and cystic structures. As tumors grow, they may destroy petrous temporal bone and extend into the middle ear and the middle and posterior cranial fossae and into the cerebellopontine angle. (WHO 2017)
adenofibromas	A benign neoplasm composed of glandular and fibrous tissues, with a relatively large proportion of glands. (Stedman, 25th ed)
benign tumor or blood disorder	<p>Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain.</p> <p>Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor.</p> <p>Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Cancer Institute</p>
phakomatosis; bourneville	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
follicular adenoma	A benign neoplasm arising from follicular cells of the thyroid gland.
cortical cell adenoma	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
adenoma of parathyroid gland	A neoplasm arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid glands. In the vast majority of cases, the tumor involves a single parathyroid gland. It is associated with the symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism, resulting from the excessive production of parathyroid hormone. It is usually surrounded by a well-defined capsule. Capsular invasion, vascular invasion, and perineural invasion are absent. Overall cure rates are excellent following excision of the abnormal gland(s).
parathyroid adenomas	A neoplasm arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid glands. In the vast majority of cases, the tumor involves a single parathyroid gland. It is associated with the symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism, resulting from the excessive production of parathyroid hormone. It is usually surrounded by a well-defined capsule. Capsular invasion, vascular invasion, and perineural invasion are absent. Overall cure rates are excellent following excision of the abnormal gland(s).
facial angiofibromas	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
adenoma of the lung	A benign, well circumscribed epithelial neoplasm that arises from the bronchus or the lung parenchyma. Representative examples include alveolar adenoma, papillary adenoma, and mucus gland adenoma.
kidney cortical adenoma	The presence of an adenoma in the cortex of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
tsh producing adenoma of pituitary	A rare adenoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces thyrotropin. It is usually associated with goiter and hyperthyroidism.
gonadotroph adenoma	An adenoma of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that produces gonadotrophic hormones (FSH and/or LH) or shows evidence towards gonadotroph differentiation. The majority of cases are hormonally non-functional. Clinical manifestations include visual disturbances, hypopituitarism, headache, and acute hemorrhagic necrosis of the pituitary gland.
benign adenoma of prostate	Focal benign glandular hyperplasia in the prostate gland.
adenoma of the large intestine	An adenoma that arises from the colon or rectum. The group of colorectal adenomas includes tubular, villous, and tubulovillous adenomas, traditional serrated adenomas, sessile serrated adenomas/polyps, and familial adenomatous polyposis.
adenoma of rectum	An adenoma that arises from the rectum. The group of rectal adenomas includes tubular, villous, and tubulovillous adenomas, traditional serrated adenomas, sessile serrated adenomas/polyps, and familial adenomatous polyposis.
bronchial mucous gland adenoma	A benign adenomatous neoplasm that arises from the mucous glands in the bronchus.
fibroadenoma	An adenoma containing fibrous tissue. It should be differentiated from ADENOFIBROMA which is a tumor composed of connective tissue (fibroma) containing glandular (adeno-) structures. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
fibroadenoma nos	An adenoma containing fibrous tissue. It should be differentiated from ADENOFIBROMA which is a tumor composed of connective tissue (fibroma) containing glandular (adeno-) structures. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
bourneville's syndrome	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
tuberous sclerosis syndrome	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
adenoma thyroid	A benign neoplasm arising from follicular cells of the thyroid gland.
thyroid gland follicular adenoma	A benign neoplasm arising from follicular cells of the thyroid gland.
pringle tumor	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
adenoma lungs	A benign, well circumscribed epithelial neoplasm that arises from the bronchus or the lung parenchyma. Representative examples include alveolar adenoma, papillary adenoma, and mucus gland adenoma.
fuchs' adenoma of ciliary body	A benign proliferation of the pars plicata epithelium of the ciliary body. It is associated with aging..
adenoma of the small bowel	A neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the small intestine. It is a polypoid or flat circumscribed lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by a proliferation of neoplastic glandular cells and it is associated with dysplasia. According to the growth pattern, it may be classified as tubular, villous, or tubulovillous.
acth-secreting pituitary adenoma	Adenom hypofýzy, který vylučuje adrenokortikotropní hormon, jehož nadmíra vede ke Cushingově nemoci.
[m]fibroadenoma nos	An adenoma containing fibrous tissue. It should be differentiated from ADENOFIBROMA which is a tumor composed of connective tissue (fibroma) containing glandular (adeno-) structures. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
microcystic adenoma	A benign epithelial neoplasm characterized by a microcystic pattern. The cystic spaces are lined by small cuboidal cells without evidence of significant cytologic atypia.
trabecular adenoma	A benign epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of a trabecular glandular architectural pattern.
adenoma of the parathyroid gland	A neoplasm arising from the parenchymal cells of the parathyroid glands. In the vast majority of cases, the tumor involves a single parathyroid gland. It is associated with the symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism, resulting from the excessive production of parathyroid hormone. It is usually surrounded by a well-defined capsule. Capsular invasion, vascular invasion, and perineural invasion are absent. Overall cure rates are excellent following excision of the abnormal gland(s).
mixed cell adenoma	An adenoma characterized by the presence of a mixed epithelial cell population.
lipoadenoma	An adenoma in which the neoplastic epithelial cells are admixed with adipose tissue cells.
skin appendage adenoma	A benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the sebaceous or sweat glands. Representative examples include sebaceous adenoma, tubular apocrine adenoma, and hidradenoma.
adenoma of nipple	A benign epithelial neoplasm arising from the nipple. Signs and symptoms include serous or sanguineous nipple discharge and nipple erosion. It is characterized by the presence of aggregates of small tubules replacing the nipple stroma. The tubules are lined by epithelial and myoepithelial cells.
acinar adenoma	A benign glandular epithelial neoplasm consisting of secretory cells forming acinar patterns.
renal adenoma	A benign neoplasm arising from the renal cortex.
gastrointestinal tract adenoma	A sporadic or less frequently familial neoplasm that arises from the glandular epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract and liver. In the gastrointestinal tract, it manifests as a polypoid or flat circumscribed lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by a proliferation of neoplastic glandular cells and is associated with dysplasia. Based on the growth pattern, it may be classified as tubular, villous, or tubulovillous. The dysplasia is classified as mild, moderate, or severe. The frequency of malignant transformation depends on the size of the lesion and the degree of dysplasia. Larger gastrointestinal tract adenomas with severe dysplastic changes carry a higher risk of progression to invasive adenocarcinoma. Gastrointestinal adenomas may present as solitary or multifocal lesions. In the liver, it arises from the hepatocytes. Grossly, it appears as a soft, round mass. Morphologically, the neoplastic cells resemble normal hepatocytes.
atypical adenoma	An adenoma characterized by increased cellularity and nuclear atypia without evidence of vascular or capsular invasion. A representative example is thyroid gland atypical follicular adenoma.
breast adenoma	A benign, well circumscribed neoplasm that arises from the breast. Representative examples include tubular adenoma and ductal adenoma.
villous adenoma of urinary bladder	An exophytic glandular neoplasm of the bladder, morphologically similar to its intestinal counterpart. It often coexists with in situ or infiltrating bladder adenocarcinoma.
oncocytoma	A usually benign glandular tumor composed of oxyphil cells, large cells with small irregular nuclei and dense acidophilic granules due to the presence of abundant MITOCHONDRIA. Oxyphil cells, also known as oncocytes, are found in oncocytomas of the kidney, salivary glands, and endocrine glands. In the thyroid gland, oxyphil cells are known as Hurthle cells and Askanazy cells.
adenoma of minor vestibular glands	A rare, benign neoplasm that arises from the vulva It is characterized by the presence of clusters of small glands lined by mucinous epithelial cells. Bartholin duct structures are not present.
bartholin gland adenoma	A rare, benign neoplasm that arises from the Bartholin gland and is characterized by the presence of clustered glands and tubules lined by mucin-secreting epithelial cells.
rete ovarii adenoma	An adenoma that arises from the rete ovarii. It is composed of elongated tubules. The clinical course is benign.
urethral villous adenoma	An epithelial neoplasm of the urethra, which is morphologically characterized by the presence of a villous architectural pattern.
vaginal adenoma	A glandular epithelial neoplasm that arises from the vagina and shows intestinal differentiation.
ciliary body adenoma	A benign neoplasm of the pigmented ciliary epithelium (pigmented epithelial adenoma) and/ or the non-pigmented ciliary epithelium (non-pigmented epithelial adenoma). (WHO 2018)
epithelial cells	Cells that line the inner and outer surfaces of the body by forming cellular layers (EPITHELIUM) or masses. Epithelial cells lining the SKIN; the MOUTH; the NOSE; and the ANAL CANAL derive from ectoderm; those lining the RESPIRATORY SYSTEM and the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM derive from endoderm; others (CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM and LYMPHATIC SYSTEM) derive from mesoderm. Epithelial cells can be classified mainly by cell shape and function into squamous, glandular and transitional epithelial cells.
transcription factor nfib	This gene plays a role in transcriptional regulation and mediates DNA-binding interactions.
basophilic adenoma	A small tumor of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland whose cells stain with basic dyes. It may give rise to excessive secretion of ACTH, resulting in CUSHING SYNDROME. (Dorland, 27th ed)
pituitary gland basophil adenoma	A small tumor of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland whose cells stain with basic dyes. It may give rise to excessive secretion of ACTH, resulting in CUSHING SYNDROME. (Dorland, 27th ed)
basophil adenoma	A small tumor of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland whose cells stain with basic dyes. It may give rise to excessive secretion of ACTH, resulting in CUSHING SYNDROME. (Dorland, 27th ed)
acth-secreting tumor of pituitary	An adenoma or carcinoma of the pituitary gland that produces corticotropin.
chromophobe adenoma	A benign tumor of the anterior pituitary in which the cells do not stain with acidic or basic dyes.
silent pituitary gland adenoma	A type of pituitary adenoma that is of unknown cellular origin and that lacks immunocytochemical or fine structural markers. Null cell adenomas are not associated with hormone excess. [DDD:spark]
pituitary chromophobe adenoma	A benign tumor of the anterior pituitary in which the cells do not stain with acidic or basic dyes.
acidophil adenoma	A benign tumor, usually found in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, whose cells stain with acid dyes. Such pituitary tumors may give rise to excessive secretion of growth hormone, resulting in gigantism or acromegaly. A specific type of acidophil adenoma may give rise to nonpuerperal galactorrhea. (Dorland, 27th ed)
eosinophil adenoma	A benign tumor, usually found in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, whose cells stain with acid dyes. Such pituitary tumors may give rise to excessive secretion of growth hormone, resulting in gigantism or acromegaly. A specific type of acidophil adenoma may give rise to nonpuerperal galactorrhea. (Dorland, 27th ed)
pituitary gland acidophil adenoma	A benign tumor, usually found in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, whose cells stain with acid dyes. Such pituitary tumors may give rise to excessive secretion of growth hormone, resulting in gigantism or acromegaly. A specific type of acidophil adenoma may give rise to nonpuerperal galactorrhea. (Dorland, 27th ed)
corticotropin secreting pituitary gland adenoma	Adenom hypofýzy, který vylučuje adrenokortikotropní hormon, jehož nadmíra vede ke Cushingově nemoci.
growth hormone secreting adenoma	A benign tumor, usually found in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, whose cells stain with acid dyes. Such pituitary tumors may give rise to excessive secretion of growth hormone, resulting in gigantism or acromegaly. A specific type of acidophil adenoma may give rise to nonpuerperal galactorrhea. (Dorland, 27th ed)
benign neoplasm nos	<p>Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain.</p> <p>Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor.</p> <p>Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Cancer Institute</p>
adenosarcoma	A malignant neoplasm arising simultaneously or consecutively in mesodermal tissue and glandular epithelium of the same part. (Stedman, 25th ed)
cervical adenosarcoma	A rare subtype of malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm composed of benign or mildly atypical glandular elements and a surrounding low-grade malignant stroma, often containing heterologous elements, such as areas of sex-cord-like or smooth muscle differentiation. It usually presents with vaginal bleeding or discharge, lower abdominal pain and/or a cervical mass or polyp. The neoplasm may arise from pre-existing endometriosis and patients may have a history of recurrent cervical polyps.
ovarian mesodermal adenosarcoma	A biphasic neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of mullerian-type epithelial tissue in a mesenchymal sarcomatous stroma. The presence of a high grade sarcomatous component is associated with recurrences and metastases.
müllerian adenosarcoma	A malignant neoplasm arising simultaneously or consecutively in mesodermal tissue and glandular epithelium of the same part. (Stedman, 25th ed)
uterine corpus adenosarcoma	A primary polypoid malignant neoplasm of the uterine corpus characterized by the presence of a sarcomatous mesenchymal component and a benign epithelial component. Patients usually present with abnormal vaginal bleeding. It is considered a low grade malignant neoplasm and may recur following resection.
fallopian tube adenosarcoma	An extremely rare malignant neoplasm that arises from the fallopian tube and is characterized by the presence of a benign epithelial component and a sarcomatous component.
vaginal adenosarcoma	A malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the vagina and is characterized by the presence of a malignant mesenchymal component and a benign or atypical mullerian-type epithelial component.
mullerian adenosarcoma	A malignant neoplasm arising simultaneously or consecutively in mesodermal tissue and glandular epithelium of the same part. (Stedman, 25th ed)
uterine ligament adenosarcoma	An extremely rare adenosarcoma that arises from the uterine ligament.
adenosarcomas	A malignant neoplasm arising simultaneously or consecutively in mesodermal tissue and glandular epithelium of the same part. (Stedman, 25th ed)
malignant mixed mullerian tumor	A tumor, basically a carcinoma with a single sarcoma such as leiomyosarcoma or angiosarcoma or multiple sarcomas of uterine origin. The role of estrogen has been postulated as a possible etiological factor in this tumor. (Holland et al., Cancer Medicine, 3d ed, p1703)
cancers female reproductive	A primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the female reproductive system. Representative examples include endometrial carcinoma, cervical carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, uterine corpus leiomyosarcoma, adenosarcoma, malignant mixed mesodermal (mullerian) tumor, and gestational choriocarcinoma. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4913" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4913" NCI Thesaurus)
connective tissue cell	A group of cells that includes FIBROBLASTS, cartilage cells, ADIPOCYTES, smooth muscle cells, and bone cells.
glial cell	The non-neuronal cells of the nervous system. They not only provide physical support, but also respond to injury, regulate the ionic and chemical composition of the extracellular milieu, participate in the BLOOD-BRAIN BARRIER and BLOOD-RETINAL BARRIER, form the myelin insulation of nervous pathways, guide neuronal migration during development, and exchange metabolites with neurons. Neuroglia have high-affinity transmitter uptake systems, voltage-dependent and transmitter-gated ion channels, and can release transmitters, but their role in signaling (as in many other functions) is unclear.
female reproductive system	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
mixed cellular population	A morphologic finding indicating the presence of a cellular infiltrate with a mixed population of cells in a tissue sample.
adenosinum	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
pain medicine	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
adenosine	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
adenosine receptor agonists	Compounds that bind to and stimulate PURINERGIC P1 RECEPTORS.
c-ibza-mu	An orally bioavailable, synthetic, highly selective adenosine A3 receptor (A3AR) agonist with potential antineoplastic activity. Namodenoson selectively binds to and activates the cell surface-expressed A3AR, deregulating Wnt and NF-kB signal transduction pathways downstream, which may result in apoptosis of A3AR-expressing tumor cells. A3AR, a G protein-coupled receptor, is highly expressed on the cell surfaces of various solid tumor cell types, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, and plays an important role in cellular proliferation.
galidesivirum	An adenosine analog and RNA polymerase inhibitor, with potential broad-spectrum antiviral activity. Upon administration, galidesivir is metabolized to its monophosphate form, which is then converted into the active triphosphate nucleotide. Galidesivir triphosphate binds to viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and gets incorporated into the growing viral RNA strand, which leads to premature chain termination. This prevents viral transcription and replication.
pain relieving drugs	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
adenosine - chemical	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
vasorelaxant	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
analgesic agent	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
adenosina	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
analgesic	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
analgesic drugs	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
anti-arrhythmia drug	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
nerve transm substances	any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell; included are neuromodulators, neuroregulators, neuromediators, neurohormones, and neurohumors, whether or not acting at synapses.
anti-arrhythmic	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
anti arrhythmia drug	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
nucleoside	Purine or pyrimidine bases attached to a ribose or deoxyribose. (From King & Stansfield, A Dictionary of Genetics, 4th ed)
cyclic amp	An adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group which is esterified to both the 3'- and 5'-positions of the sugar moiety. It is a second messenger and a key intracellular regulator, functioning as a mediator of activity for a number of hormones, including epinephrine, glucagon, and ACTH.
amp - adenosine monophosphate	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
purine nucleoside	Purines with a RIBOSE attached that can be phosphorylated to PURINE NUCLEOTIDES.
adenosine phosphate	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
adenosine preparation	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
antiarrhythmics	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
adenogesic	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
adenosine agent	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
atrial fibrillation	Abnormal cardiac rhythm that is characterized by rapid, uncoordinated firing of electrical impulses in the upper chambers of the heart (HEART ATRIA). In such case, blood cannot be effectively pumped into the lower chambers of the heart (HEART VENTRICLES). It is caused by abnormal impulse generation.
sick sinus syndrome	A condition caused by dysfunctions related to the SINOATRIAL NODE including impulse generation (CARDIAC SINUS ARREST) and impulse conduction (SINOATRIAL EXIT BLOCK). It is characterized by persistent BRADYCARDIA, chronic ATRIAL FIBRILLATION, and failure to resume sinus rhythm following CARDIOVERSION. This syndrome can be congenital or acquired, particularly after surgical correction for heart defects.
atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia	Abnormally rapid heartbeats caused by reentry of atrial impulse into the dual (fast and slow) pathways of ATRIOVENTRICULAR NODE. The common type involves a blocked atrial impulse in the slow pathway which reenters the fast pathway in a retrograde direction and simultaneously conducts to the atria and the ventricles leading to rapid HEART RATE of 150-250 beats per minute.
tachycardia ventricular	An abnormally rapid ventricular rhythm usually in excess of 150 beats per minute. It is generated within the ventricle below the BUNDLE OF HIS, either as autonomic impulse formation or reentrant impulse conduction. Depending on the etiology, onset of ventricular tachycardia can be paroxysmal (sudden) or nonparoxysmal, its wide QRS complexes can be uniform or polymorphic, and the ventricular beating may be independent of the atrial beating (AV dissociation).
purine nucleoside product	Purines with a RIBOSE attached that can be phosphorylated to PURINE NUCLEOTIDES.
adénosine	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
adenosine cyclic phosphate	An adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group which is esterified to both the 3'- and 5'-positions of the sugar moiety. It is a second messenger and a key intracellular regulator, functioning as a mediator of activity for a number of hormones, including epinephrine, glucagon, and ACTH.
analgesic agents	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
ade-rib	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
adenosine product	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
painkillers	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
adenin riboside	A nucleoside that is composed of ADENINE and D-RIBOSE. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
anodynes	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
cyclic adenosine monophosphate	An adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group which is esterified to both the 3'- and 5'-positions of the sugar moiety. It is a second messenger and a key intracellular regulator, functioning as a mediator of activity for a number of hormones, including epinephrine, glucagon, and ACTH.
adenosine monophosphate	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
second messenger systems	Systems in which an intracellular signal is generated in response to an intercellular primary messenger such as a hormone or neurotransmitter. They are intermediate signals in cellular processes such as metabolism, secretion, contraction, phototransduction, and cell growth. Examples of second messenger systems are the adenyl cyclase-cyclic AMP system, the phosphatidylinositol diphosphate-inositol triphosphate system, and the cyclic GMP system.
adenosine diphosphate	Adenosine 5'-(trihydrogen diphosphate). An adenine nucleotide containing two phosphate groups esterified to the sugar moiety at the 5'-position.
ribonucleotide	Nucleotides in which the purine or pyrimidine base is combined with ribose. (Dorland, 28th ed)
adenosine kinase	An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of ADP plus AMP from adenosine plus ATP. It can serve as a salvage mechanism for returning adenosine to nucleic acids. EC 2.7.1.20.
phosphokinases	A rather large group of enzymes comprising not only those transferring phosphate but also diphosphate, nucleotidyl residues, and others. These have also been subdivided according to the acceptor group. (From Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.7.
muscle adenylic acid	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
fosfato de adenosina	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
adenylic acid	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
anti arrhythmia agent	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
flutter - atrial	Rapid, irregular atrial contractions caused by a block of electrical impulse conduction in the right atrium and a reentrant wave front traveling up the inter-atrial septum and down the right atrial free wall or vice versa. Unlike ATRIAL FIBRILLATION which is caused by abnormal impulse generation, typical atrial flutter is caused by abnormal impulse conduction. As in atrial fibrillation, patients with atrial flutter cannot effectively pump blood into the lower chambers of the heart (HEART VENTRICLES).
adenine nucleotide	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
antiparkinsonian agent	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
adenosini phosphas	Adenine nucleotide containing one phosphate group esterified to the sugar moiety in the 2'-, 3'-, or 5'-position.
ribonucleotides	Nucleotides in which the purine or pyrimidine base is combined with ribose. (Dorland, 28th ed)
recept adenosine	A class of cell surface receptors that prefer ADENOSINE to other endogenous PURINES. Purinergic P1 receptors are widespread in the body including the cardiovascular, respiratory, immune, and nervous systems. There are at least two pharmacologically distinguishable types (A1 and A2, or Ri and Ra).
purinoceptors	any molecular receptor for adenine, guanine, or other purine, or their nucleosides or nucleotides, including cyclic nucleotides other than cAMP (see NT); adenine and ATP are important neurotransmitters, so their receptors are found in neural synapses, among other sites.
g protein coupled receptor	La familia mas grande de receptores de superficie celular involucrados en TRANSDUCCIÓN DE SEÑAL. Comparten una estructura común y señal con PROTEÍNAS G HETEROTRIMÉRICAS.
g protein coupled receptor gene	These genes encodes G protein-coupled receptors (GPRs or GPCRs). GPRs contain 7 hydrophobic transmembrane domains embedded in hydrophilic intra- and extracellular loops and transduce a variety of hormone, endogenous peptide, and neurotransmitter signals into intracellular effects via G proteins. (from OMIM 604161)
adenosine triphosphatase	in addition to the classic mitochondrial enzyme, many structural (e.g. myosin) and transport (e.g. ion pump) proteins include an ATPase domain.
iswi protein	The Drosophila gene Imitation SWI (Iswi) encodes a DNA helicase involved in chromatin modeling. It contains a SNF2 related domain, a MYB DNA binding domain, a DEAD/DEAH box helicase, and a helicase C-terminal domain. Iswi is a component of NURF, a nucleosome remodeling complex that facilitates the perturbation of chromatin structure in an ATP-dependent manner. The hydrolysis of ATP during the remodeling of chromatin is mediated by Iswi. It is also a component of the ATP-utilizing chromatin assembly and remodeling factor ACF and of the chromatin accessibility complex CHRAC. This subunit serves as the energy-transducing component of chromatin-remodeling machines. NURF is composed of a 215 kD protein, Iswi, nurf-55, and nurf-38. Iswi belongs to the SNF2/RAD54 helicase family, SNF2L subfamily. (from FlyBase 0011604 and NCI)
atpase	A molecular function characterized by the use of ATP hydrolysis as an energy source, for example to catalyze a reaction or drive transport against a concentration gradient. [GOC:curators]
torsin	Torsin-1A (332 aa, ~38 kDa) is encoded by the human TOR1A gene. This protein plays a role in protein folding, maturation and localization.
adenosine triphosphatases	in addition to the classic mitochondrial enzyme, many structural (e.g. myosin) and transport (e.g. ion pump) proteins include an ATPase domain.
helicase	Proteins that catalyze the unwinding of duplex DNA during replication by binding cooperatively to single-stranded regions of DNA or to short regions of duplex DNA that are undergoing transient opening. In addition, DNA helicases are DNA-dependent ATPases that harness the free energy of ATP hydrolysis to translocate DNA strands.
helicase polq-like	Helicase POLQ-like (1101 aa, ~124 kDa) is encoded by the human HELQ gene. This protein plays a role in ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity.
bile salt export pump	Bile salt export pump (1321 aa, ~146 kDa) is encoded by the human ABCB11 gene. This protein plays a role in bile salt secretion.
recq helicase family protein	RecQ family proteins are 3'-5' DNA helicases. All RecQ family proteins include a domain of approx. 450 amino acids that contains seven highly conserved motifs, including a 'Walker A-box' ATP-binding motif and a DExH box which is a characteristic of this family. These motifs are found in several DNA and RNA helicases.
atp hydrolase	in addition to the classic mitochondrial enzyme, many structural (e.g. myosin) and transport (e.g. ion pump) proteins include an ATPase domain.
probable helicase senataxin	Probable helicase senataxin (2677 aa, ~303 kDa) is encoded by the human SETX gene. This protein is involved in nucleic acid processing.
plasma membrane calcium pump	Plasma membrane calcium-transporting ATPase 3 (1220 aa, ~134 kDa) is encoded by the human ATP2B3 gene. This protein plays a role in both ATP hydrolysis and calcium transport.
bloom syndrome protein	Bloom syndrome protein (1417 aa, ~159 kDa) is encoded by the human BLM gene. This protein plays a role in DNA replication and cell division.
fanconi anemia group j protein	Fanconi anemia group J protein (1249 aa, ~141 kDa) is encoded by the human BRIP1 gene. This protein is involved in DNA-dependent ATPase activity, 5' to 3' DNA helicase activity, and homologous recombination.
regulator of telomere length	Regulator of telomere elongation helicase 1 (1219 aa, ~134 kDa) is encoded by the human RTEL1 gene. This protein plays a role in the maintenance of chromosomes and telomeres.
x-linked helicase ii	Transcriptional regulator ATRX (2492 aa, ~283 kDa) is encoded by the human ATRX gene. This protein plays a role in both chromatin remodeling and transcriptional regulation.
non-muscle myosin heavy chain a	Myosin-9 (1960 aa, ~227 kDa) is encoded by the human MYH9 gene. This protein is involved in both cell shape and cytokinesis.
myosin-xviiia	Unconventional myosin-XVIIIa (2054 aa, ~233 kDa) is encoded by the human MYO18A gene. This protein may play a role in the shape and function of the Golgi apparatus.
putative helicase ruvbl	ATPase WRNIP1 (665 aa, ~72 kDa) is encoded by the human WRNIP1 gene. This protein is involved in both ATP hydrolysis and DNA replication.
myosin-ic	Unconventional myosin-Ie (1108 aa, ~127 kDa) is encoded by the human MYO1E gene. This protein plays a role in the intracellular movement of lipids and vesicles.
dead-box protein abstrakt	Probable ATP-dependent RNA helicase DDX41 (622 aa, ~70 kDa) is encoded by the human DDX41 gene. This protein may play a role in gene splicing.
calcium pump	Cation-transporting proteins that utilize the energy of ATP hydrolysis for the transport of CALCIUM. They differ from CALCIUM CHANNELS which allow calcium to pass through a membrane without the use of energy.
sodium potassium pump	Ett enzym som katalyserar den aktiva transporten av natrium- och kaliumjoner genom cellväggen. Natrium- och kaliumjoner kopplas tätt ihop med membran-ATPas som genomgår fosforylering och defosforylering och därmed frigör energi för transport av dessa joner mot koncentrationsgradienter.
hydrolases	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the substrate and the addition of water to the resulting molecules, e.g., ESTERASES, glycosidases (GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES), lipases, NUCLEOTIDASES, peptidases (PEPTIDE HYDROLASES), and phosphatases (PHOSPHORIC MONOESTER HYDROLASES). EC 3.
adenosine triphosphate	An adenine nucleotide containing three phosphate groups esterified to the sugar moiety. In addition to its crucial roles in metabolism adenosine triphosphate is a neurotransmitter.
purine nucleotide	Purines attached to a RIBOSE and a phosphate that can polymerize to form DNA and RNA.
atp - adenosine triphosphate	An adenine nucleotide containing three phosphate groups esterified to the sugar moiety. In addition to its crucial roles in metabolism adenosine triphosphate is a neurotransmitter.
atrial flutter	Rapid, irregular atrial contractions caused by a block of electrical impulse conduction in the right atrium and a reentrant wave front traveling up the inter-atrial septum and down the right atrial free wall or vice versa. Unlike ATRIAL FIBRILLATION which is caused by abnormal impulse generation, typical atrial flutter is caused by abnormal impulse conduction. As in atrial fibrillation, patients with atrial flutter cannot effectively pump blood into the lower chambers of the heart (HEART VENTRICLES).
disorder lung	Pathological processes involving any part of the LUNG.
adt - adenosine triphosphate	An adenine nucleotide containing three phosphate groups esterified to the sugar moiety. In addition to its crucial roles in metabolism adenosine triphosphate is a neurotransmitter.
paroxysmal tachycardia	Abnormally rapid heartbeats with sudden onset and cessation.
nucleotide	The monomeric units from which DNA or RNA polymers are constructed. They consist of a purine or pyrimidine base, a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group. (From King & Stansfield, A Dictionary of Genetics, 4th ed)
energy metabolism process	The chemical reactions involved in the production and utilization of various forms of energy in cells.
cellular respiration	The metabolic process of all living cells (animal and plant) in which oxygen is used to provide a source of energy for the cell.
adenoviridae	nonenveloped, ds-DNA in single linear molecule, at least 10 polypeptides, assembly of virus particle in nucleus of usually one host, transmission by direct or indirect contact with urine or feces in throat or eye.
adenovirus infection	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
adenoviruses	nonenveloped, ds-DNA in single linear molecule, at least 10 polypeptides, assembly of virus particle in nucleus of usually one host, transmission by direct or indirect contact with urine or feces in throat or eye.
avian adenovirus	A genus of ADENOVIRIDAE that infects birds. The type species is FOWL ADENOVIRUS A.
family: adenovirus	nonenveloped, ds-DNA in single linear molecule, at least 10 polypeptides, assembly of virus particle in nucleus of usually one host, transmission by direct or indirect contact with urine or feces in throat or eye.
celo viruses	Sérotyp ptačího adenoviru A.
adenovirus	nonenveloped, ds-DNA in single linear molecule, at least 10 polypeptides, assembly of virus particle in nucleus of usually one host, transmission by direct or indirect contact with urine or feces in throat or eye.
enadenotucirev	A complex, replication-selective, chimeric adenovirus type 11p (Ad11p)/Ad3 oncolytic virus vaccine, with potential antineoplastic and immunomodulating activities. Enadenotucirev has the Ad11p backbone with a large deletion in the E3-region and a small E4-domain (E4orf4) deleted, in addition to a partial E2B substitution by the Ad3 E2B genes. Upon intravenous administration of enadenotucirev, the adenovirus selectively reaches the tumor cells due to the leaky tumor vasculature and replicates in cancer cells; however, it is unable to replicate in normal, healthy cells. This induces a selective adenovirus-mediated cytotoxicity in cancer cells, which leads to cancer lysis. Following the lysis of infected cells, the replicated virus is released and can infect adjacent cells, which both induces further tumor cell oncolysis and may activate, through the release of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) and inflammatory mediators from the lysed tumor cells, the immune system to mount an anti-tumor immune response. This further kills tumor cells. This may also stimulate long-term anti-tumor immunity. Although the cancer-selectivity of enadenotucirev is not entirely understood, the virus does not efficiently infect normal cells.
aviadenovirus	A genus of ADENOVIRIDAE that infects birds. The type species is FOWL ADENOVIRUS A.
siadenovirus	Rod virů čeledi Adenoviridae. Patří sem např. druhy infikující žáby či krocany. Typovým druhem je žabí adenovirus FrAdV.
adenoviridae infections	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
pharyngoconjunct fever	A condition characterized by fever, conjunctivitis, and pharyngitis resulting from infection by adenovirus.
pharyngo conjunctival fever	A condition characterized by fever, conjunctivitis, and pharyngitis resulting from infection by adenovirus.
atadenovirus	Ett släkte inom Adenoviridae som omfattar ett flertal virusarter hos däggdjur och fåglar. Typarten är fåradenovirus D.
genus siadenovirus	Rod virů čeledi Adenoviridae. Patří sem např. druhy infikující žáby či krocany. Typovým druhem je žabí adenovirus FrAdV.
adenovirus infection nos	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
mastadenovirus	A genus of ADENOVIRIDAE that infects MAMMALS including humans and causes a wide range of diseases. The type species is Human adenovirus C (see ADENOVIRUSES, HUMAN).
disease caused by adenovirus	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
family adenoviridae	nonenveloped, ds-DNA in single linear molecule, at least 10 polypeptides, assembly of virus particle in nucleus of usually one host, transmission by direct or indirect contact with urine or feces in throat or eye.
adenovirus antibody	An antibody produced by B-lymphocytes in response to adenovirus infection.
adenovirus antibody assay	The determination of the amount of adenovirus antibody present in a sample.
adenoviridae infect	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
adenovirus group	nonenveloped, ds-DNA in single linear molecule, at least 10 polypeptides, assembly of virus particle in nucleus of usually one host, transmission by direct or indirect contact with urine or feces in throat or eye.
adenovab	The determination of the amount of adenovirus antibody present in a sample.
unclassified dsdna viruses	A virus that has double stranded DNA as its genetic material.
ctrp biomarker terminology	A set of terms that is comprised of the biomarkers referenced in NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
adenoviridae infection	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
viral infection	A general term for diseases caused by viruses.
adenovirus infect	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
viral infection of unspecified site	A general term for diseases caused by viruses.
adenovirus infections	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
communicable diseases	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
infect adenoviridae	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
recurrent adenovirus infection	An adenovirus infection that has recurred after a period of remission.
adenoviral infection	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
refractory adenovirus infection	An adenovirus infection that does not respond to treatment.
virus disease	A general term for diseases caused by viruses.
canine infectious hepatitides	A contagious disease caused by canine adenovirus (ADENOVIRUSES, CANINE) infecting the LIVER, the EYE, the KIDNEY, and other organs in dogs, other canids, and bears. Symptoms include FEVER; EDEMA; VOMITING; and DIARRHEA.
disease due to adenovirus	Virus diseases caused by the ADENOVIRIDAE.
infections	Nákaza. Proniknutí choroboplodných zárodků (bakterií, virů, chlamydií, ricketsií, plísní) do organismu. Příslušné mikroorganismy vnikají do těla různými způsoby. V těle se pomnoží a po určité době nutné k rozvoji onemocnění (inkubační době) se objevují příznaky více či méně typické pro danou infekci. Někdy nakažený jedinec choroboplodné zárodky vylučuje a může tak nakazit jiné osoby. Výrazný vliv na vznik a průběh i. má imunitní systém. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2013 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
hepatitis infect canine	A contagious disease caused by canine adenovirus (ADENOVIRUSES, CANINE) infecting the LIVER, the EYE, the KIDNEY, and other organs in dogs, other canids, and bears. Symptoms include FEVER; EDEMA; VOMITING; and DIARRHEA.
avian adenovirus group	A genus of ADENOVIRIDAE that infects birds. The type species is FOWL ADENOVIRUS A.
adenoviral	nonenveloped, ds-DNA in single linear molecule, at least 10 polypeptides, assembly of virus particle in nucleus of usually one host, transmission by direct or indirect contact with urine or feces in throat or eye.
fowl adenovirus a	Typarten för släktet Aviadenovirus, familjen Adenoviridae, ett tumörvirus hos fåglar. Viruset kallas även CELO-virus (chick embryo lethal orphan virus).
aviadenoviruses	A genus of ADENOVIRIDAE that infects birds. The type species is FOWL ADENOVIRUS A.
human adenoviruses	Species of the genus MASTADENOVIRUS, causing a wide range of diseases in humans. Infections are mostly asymptomatic, but can be associated with diseases of the respiratory, ocular, and gastrointestinal systems. Serotypes (named with Arabic numbers) have been grouped into species designated Human adenovirus A-G.
simian adenovirus	Species of the genus MASTADENOVIRUS associated with respiratory and enteric infections in primate hosts.
mammalian adenovirus group	A genus of ADENOVIRIDAE that infects MAMMALS including humans and causes a wide range of diseases. The type species is Human adenovirus C (see ADENOVIRUSES, HUMAN).
adenylate cyclase	Enzymes of the lyase class that catalyze the formation of CYCLIC AMP and pyrophosphate from ATP.
adenylate kinase	An enzyme that catalyzes the phosphorylation of AMP to ADP in the presence of ATP or inorganic triphosphate. EC 2.7.4.3.
myokinase	An enzyme that catalyzes the phosphorylation of AMP to ADP in the presence of ATP or inorganic triphosphate. EC 2.7.4.3.
atp amp phosphotransferase	An enzyme that catalyzes the phosphorylation of AMP to ADP in the presence of ATP or inorganic triphosphate. EC 2.7.4.3.
adenylosuccinate lyase	An enzyme that, in the course of purine ribonucleotide biosynthesis, catalyzes the conversion of 5'-phosphoribosyl-4-(N-succinocarboxamide)-5-aminoimidazole to 5'-phosphoribosyl-4-carboxamide-5-aminoimidazole and the conversion of adenylosuccinic acid to AMP. EC 4.3.2.2.
biocatalyst	Biological molecules that possess catalytic activity. They may occur naturally or be synthetically created. Enzymes are usually proteins, however CATALYTIC RNA and CATALYTIC DNA molecules have also been identified.
imp aspartate ligase	A carbon-nitrogen ligase. During purine ribonucleotide biosynthesis, this enzyme catalyzes the synthesis of adenylosuccinate from GTP; IMP; and aspartate with the formation of orthophosphate and GDP. EC 6.3.4.4.
ligases	A class of enzymes that catalyze the formation of a bond between two substrate molecules, coupled with the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond in ATP or a similar energy donor. (Dorland, 28th ed) EC 6.
succino amp synthetase	A carbon-nitrogen ligase. During purine ribonucleotide biosynthesis, this enzyme catalyzes the synthesis of adenylosuccinate from GTP; IMP; and aspartate with the formation of orthophosphate and GDP. EC 6.3.4.4.
adhesions	A fibrous band of tissue that connects normally separate body regions.
tissue adhesions	A fibrous band of tissue that connects normally separate body regions.
adhesion	union of opposing surfaces.
nonneo	The terminology that includes concepts relevant to non-neoplastic microscopic findings.
tissue adhesion	A fibrous band of tissue that connects normally separate body regions.
intestinal obstruction	Any impairment, arrest, or reversal of the normal flow of INTESTINAL CONTENTS toward the ANAL CANAL.
amniotic band anomalad	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
tight prepuce	A condition in which the FORESKIN cannot be retracted to reveal the GLANS PENIS. It is due to tightness or narrowing of the foreskin opening.
anterior synechiae of iris	Adhesions between the iris and the cornea. [DDD:ncarter]
symblepharon	A partial or complete adhesion of the palpebral conjunctiva of the eyelid to the bulbar conjunctiva of the eyeball. [GOC:MG, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symblepharon]
conjunctival adhesion	A partial or complete adhesion of the palpebral conjunctiva of the eyelid to the bulbar conjunctiva of the eyeball. [GOC:MG, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symblepharon]
atretoblepharia	A partial or complete adhesion of the palpebral conjunctiva of the eyelid to the bulbar conjunctiva of the eyeball. [GOC:MG, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symblepharon]
acquired phimosis	Phimosis that develops in an uncircumcised male with a previously loose foreskin.
nails pterygium	Inward advance of skin over the nail plate. [HPO:probinson]
temporomandibular joint adhesion	Formation of one or more fibrous bands within the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) with resulting limitation of movement of the TMJ. Adhesions may be seen in degenerative processes that involve the TMJ. [PMID:12139272, PMID:19534789]
vitreomacular traction syndrome	The following must be present on at least one OCT (Optical coherence tomography ) scan image: (i) Partial vitreous detachment as indicated by elevation of cortical vitreous above the retinal surface in the perifoveal area (ii) Persistent vitreous attachment.
amniotic band	Annular constrictions around the digits, limbs, or trunk, occurring congenitally (sometimes causing intrauterine autoamputation) and also associated with a wide variety of disorders. Constrictive amniotic bands are the result of primary amniotic rupture, which can lead to entanglement of fetal tissue (especially limbs) in fibrous amniotic strands. [HPO:probinson]
vitreomacular adhesion	Perifoveal vitreous separation with remaining vitreomacular attachment and unperturbed foveal morphologic features. It is an OCT finding that is almost always the result of normal vitreous aging, which may lead to pathologic conditions. [PMID:24053995]
phimoses	A condition in which the FORESKIN cannot be retracted to reveal the GLANS PENIS. It is due to tightness or narrowing of the foreskin opening.
adhesions of iris anterior synechiae	Adhesions between the iris and the cornea. [DDD:ncarter]
conjunctival adhesions	A partial or complete adhesion of the palpebral conjunctiva of the eyelid to the bulbar conjunctiva of the eyeball. [GOC:MG, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symblepharon]
adhesion of the temporomandibular joint	Formation of one or more fibrous bands within the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) with resulting limitation of movement of the TMJ. Adhesions may be seen in degenerative processes that involve the TMJ. [PMID:12139272, PMID:19534789]
adhesive tape	Tapes coated on one or both sides with an adhesive. Adhesive tapes are usually very long (e.g., several yards/meters) and narrow (typically 0.5 to 3 inches/12 to 76 mm) strips or bands made of materials such as cloth (e.g., cotton), plastic, paper, and/or other materials. Adhesive tapes are intended to attach objects (e.g., dressings, bandages, tubes, catheters) to the body or other surfaces; tape may also be applied in several layers, one overlapping the other (i.e., strapping), to cover and exert pressure on a body part (e.g., a limb). Adhesive tapes with particular properties (e.g., hypoallergenic, waterproof, or both) are also available.
metallic adhesive tapes	Adhesive tapes made of metal fibers (e.g., aluminum, copper, steel) coated with acrylic adhesives. These tapes are usually long and narrow strips supplied in rolls. Metallic adhesive tapes are intended to be used in sealing and protecting metal ducts or other objects from moisture and are also used for packing or labeling purposes.
adhesive tapes	Tapes coated on one or both sides with an adhesive. Adhesive tapes are usually very long (e.g., several yards/meters) and narrow (typically 0.5 to 3 inches/12 to 76 mm) strips or bands made of materials such as cloth (e.g., cotton), plastic, paper, and/or other materials. Adhesive tapes are intended to attach objects (e.g., dressings, bandages, tubes, catheters) to the body or other surfaces; tape may also be applied in several layers, one overlapping the other (i.e., strapping), to cover and exert pressure on a body part (e.g., a limb). Adhesive tapes with particular properties (e.g., hypoallergenic, waterproof, or both) are also available.
cloth adhesive tape	Adhesive tapes made of natural (e.g., cotton), semi-synthetic or synthetic (e.g. nylon, polyester) fibers. Adhesive cloth tapes are usually long and narrow strips supplied in rolls; most tapes are permeable to air and water vapors. Cloth tapes are intended to attach objects (e.g. dressings, bandages, tubes, catheters) to the body. Adhesive tapes made of cloth with particular (e.g., hypoallergenic, waterproof, or both) properties and/or including medications are also available.
zinc oxide adhesive tape	Medicated adhesive cloth tapes coated with a layer of adhesives that contain zinc oxide. These tapes are usually long and narrow strips supplied in rolls. Zinc oxide medicated tapes are intended to attach objects (dressings, tubes, catheters) to the body, simultaneously providing relief from skin irritation and protection from infections.
adhesivenesses	A property of the surface of an object that makes it stick to another surface.
adhesive	Substances that cause the adherence of two surfaces. They include glues (properly collagen-derived adhesives), mucilages, sticky pastes, gums, resins, or latex.
otologic cement	Cement that is a glass-ionomeric, hydrophilic, osteoconductive, and biocompatible material used in otology. It comprises cement powder and liquid ingredients (such as autologous blood and antibiotics). It is intended for otologic procedures such as middle-ear reconstruction; to cement bone grafts, stapes prostheses, or cochlear implant electrodes; or to attach implantable hearing aid devices.
adhesives	Substances that cause the adherence of two surfaces. They include glues (properly collagen-derived adhesives), mucilages, sticky pastes, gums, resins, or latex.
single-use device	A device that is intended for one use, or on a single patient during a single procedure (Title 21 Chapter 9 Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act).
adhesive strips	Short (usually less than 4 inches/10 cm) in length and narrow (typically 1 to 2 inches/2.5 to 5 cm) flexible strips evenly covered on one side with a pressure-sensitive adhesive, which are designed to cover a wound and/or approximate the skin edges of a wound, or to attach dressings or other small devices (e.g., intravenous catheters) to the skin. These strips are usually made of cloth (e.g., cotton), plastic, paper, and/or other materials; some strips include a central wound pad. Adhesive strips are intended for single use (i.e., disposable); they are usually supplied in precut sizes and/or shapes that are packaged sterile. Multipurpose adhesive strips with hypoallergenic, waterproof, and/or antimicrobial properties are available; dedicated strips intended for wound closure are also available.
sleeves	A physical object that is a device or a component or accessory of a device.
annex g	Terms/codes for describing the parts and components which were involved in, or affected by, the medical device adverse event/incident used by the CDRH.
pq/cmc excipient function terminology	A category of terminology used to qualify the information pertaining to excipient functions in the framework of the Pharmaceutical Quality/Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls documents.
adie syndrome	A syndrome characterized by a TONIC PUPIL that occurs in combination with decreased lower extremity reflexes. The affected pupil will respond more briskly to accommodation than to light (light-near dissociation) and is supersensitive to dilute pilocarpine eye drops, which induce pupillary constriction. Pathologic features include degeneration of the ciliary ganglion and postganglionic parasympathetic fibers that innervate the pupillary constrictor muscle. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p279)
tonic pupillary reaction	A pupillary abnormality characterized by a poor pupillary light reaction, reduced accommodation, iris sector palsies, an enhanced pupillary response to near effort that results in a prolonged, "tonic" constriction, and slow pupillary redilation. This condition is associated with injury to the postganglionic parasympathetic innervation to the pupil. (From Miller et al., Clinical Neuro-Ophthalmology, 4th ed, pp492-500)
poorly reacting pupil	A syndrome characterized by a TONIC PUPIL that occurs in combination with decreased lower extremity reflexes. The affected pupil will respond more briskly to accommodation than to light (light-near dissociation) and is supersensitive to dilute pilocarpine eye drops, which induce pupillary constriction. Pathologic features include degeneration of the ciliary ganglion and postganglionic parasympathetic fibers that innervate the pupillary constrictor muscle. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p279)
adie's tonic pupil	A pupillary abnormality characterized by a poor pupillary light reaction, reduced accommodation, iris sector palsies, an enhanced pupillary response to near effort that results in a prolonged, "tonic" constriction, and slow pupillary redilation. This condition is associated with injury to the postganglionic parasympathetic innervation to the pupil. (From Miller et al., Clinical Neuro-Ophthalmology, 4th ed, pp492-500)
pupillotonia	A pupillary abnormality characterized by a poor pupillary light reaction, reduced accommodation, iris sector palsies, an enhanced pupillary response to near effort that results in a prolonged, "tonic" constriction, and slow pupillary redilation. This condition is associated with injury to the postganglionic parasympathetic innervation to the pupil. (From Miller et al., Clinical Neuro-Ophthalmology, 4th ed, pp492-500)
holmes-adie syndrome	A syndrome characterized by a TONIC PUPIL that occurs in combination with decreased lower extremity reflexes. The affected pupil will respond more briskly to accommodation than to light (light-near dissociation) and is supersensitive to dilute pilocarpine eye drops, which induce pupillary constriction. Pathologic features include degeneration of the ciliary ganglion and postganglionic parasympathetic fibers that innervate the pupillary constrictor muscle. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p279)
adie pupil	A pupillary abnormality characterized by a poor pupillary light reaction, reduced accommodation, iris sector palsies, an enhanced pupillary response to near effort that results in a prolonged, "tonic" constriction, and slow pupillary redilation. This condition is associated with injury to the postganglionic parasympathetic innervation to the pupil. (From Miller et al., Clinical Neuro-Ophthalmology, 4th ed, pp492-500)
tonic pupil	A pupillary abnormality characterized by a poor pupillary light reaction, reduced accommodation, iris sector palsies, an enhanced pupillary response to near effort that results in a prolonged, "tonic" constriction, and slow pupillary redilation. This condition is associated with injury to the postganglionic parasympathetic innervation to the pupil. (From Miller et al., Clinical Neuro-Ophthalmology, 4th ed, pp492-500)
anomalies of pupillary function	A functional abnormality of the pupil. [HPO:probinson]
adie's pupil syndrome	A syndrome characterized by a TONIC PUPIL that occurs in combination with decreased lower extremity reflexes. The affected pupil will respond more briskly to accommodation than to light (light-near dissociation) and is supersensitive to dilute pilocarpine eye drops, which induce pupillary constriction. Pathologic features include degeneration of the ciliary ganglion and postganglionic parasympathetic fibers that innervate the pupillary constrictor muscle. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p279)
syndromes	A characteristic symptom complex.
adipose fat body	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
fat body	A nutritional reservoir of fatty tissue found mainly in INSECTS and AMPHIBIANS.
adipose tissue	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
brown fat	thermogenic type of adipose tissue containing a dark pigment, and arising during embryonic life in certain specific areas in many mammals, including man; prominent in the newborn of all species in which it occurs and remains a distinct and conspicuous tissue in the adults of certain species, especially those that hibernate.
subcutaneous fat	Fettvävnad under huden över hela kroppen.
capsula adiposa perirenalis	A layer of fatty tissue surrounding the kidney, bounded by the renal capsule and the renal fascia.
adipocytus unigutturalis	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
white adipose tissue	Fatty tissue composed of WHITE ADIPOCYTES and generally found directly under the skin (SUBCUTANEOUS FAT) and around the internal organs (ABDOMINAL FAT). It has less vascularization and less coloration than the BROWN FAT. White fat provides heat insulation, mechanical cushion, and source of energy.
irregular dense connective tissue	Irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue, the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles. Examples: connective tissue of peritoneum, connective tissue of fibrous pericardium.
yellow fat	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
fatty tissue	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
subcutaneous tissue	Fettvävnad under huden över hela kroppen.
fat tissue	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
fat perinephric	A layer of fatty tissue surrounding the kidney, bounded by the renal capsule and the renal fascia.
white fat	Fatty tissue composed of WHITE ADIPOCYTES and generally found directly under the skin (SUBCUTANEOUS FAT) and around the internal organs (ABDOMINAL FAT). It has less vascularization and less coloration than the BROWN FAT. White fat provides heat insulation, mechanical cushion, and source of energy.
textus adiposus albus	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
yellow adipose tissue	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
fatty capsule of kidney	A layer of fatty tissue surrounding the kidney, bounded by the renal capsule and the renal fascia.
fat cell	Cells in the body that store FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. WHITE ADIPOCYTES are the predominant type and found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue. BROWN ADIPOCYTES are thermogenic cells that can be found in newborns of some species and hibernating mammals.
fat tissues	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
appendices omentales	Výběžky serózního pobřišnicového povlaku tlustého střeva, vyplněné tukovým vazivem, nejasné funkce. (upraveno podle Wikiskripta 2019 http://www.wikiskripta.eu/)
adipose	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
connective tissue	Tissue that supports and binds other tissues. It consists of CONNECTIVE TISSUE CELLS embedded in a large amount of EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX.
soft tissue	A system of diagnosis and treatment directed toward tissues other than skeletal or arthrodial elements.
adipocytes	Cells in the body that store FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. WHITE ADIPOCYTES are the predominant type and found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue. BROWN ADIPOCYTES are thermogenic cells that can be found in newborns of some species and hibernating mammals.
lipoblast	A connective tissue cell that develops into a fat cell.
cachexia	General ill health, malnutrition, and weight loss, usually associated with chronic disease.
lipectomy	Removal of localized SUBCUTANEOUS FAT deposits by SUCTION CURETTAGE or blunt CANNULATION in the cosmetic correction of OBESITY and other esthetic contour defects.
lipectomies	Removal of localized SUBCUTANEOUS FAT deposits by SUCTION CURETTAGE or blunt CANNULATION in the cosmetic correction of OBESITY and other esthetic contour defects.
lipoma	A benign tumor composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It can be surrounded by a thin layer of connective tissue (encapsulated), or diffuse without the capsule.
lipoma nos	A benign tumor composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It can be surrounded by a thin layer of connective tissue (encapsulated), or diffuse without the capsule.
adipose tissues	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
suction lipectomy	The removal of excess fat deposits from the body.
liposuction	The removal of excess fat deposits from the body.
lipoma of spermatic cord	A lipoma that arises from the spermatic cord.
lipoma of the spermatic cord	A lipoma that arises from the spermatic cord.
fatty tissues	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
brown fat tumour	Vzácný benigní nádor u člověka, který se skládá z hnědých tukových buněk (podobných těm, které se vyskytují u hibernujících zvířat) s velkým množstvím mitochondrií. Vyskytuje se hlavně v podkoží interskapulární oblasti novorozenců.
brown fat tumor	Vzácný benigní nádor u člověka, který se skládá z hnědých tukových buněk (podobných těm, které se vyskytují u hibernujících zvířat) s velkým množstvím mitochondrií. Vyskytuje se hlavně v podkoží interskapulární oblasti novorozenců.
pleomorphic lipoma	A benign circumscribed tumor characterized by small spindle cells, rounded hyperchromatic cells and multinucleated giant cells with radially arranged nuclei.
tumor of adipose tissue	Neoplasms composed of fatty tissue or connective tissue made up of fat cells in a meshwork of areolar tissue. The concept does not refer to neoplasms located in adipose tissue.
adipose tissue neoplasm	Neoplasms composed of fatty tissue or connective tissue made up of fat cells in a meshwork of areolar tissue. The concept does not refer to neoplasms located in adipose tissue.
angiolipoma	A benign neoplasm composed of a mixture of adipose tissue and blood vessels. (Dorland, 27th ed)
myelolipomas	A rare benign tumor of the adrenal gland, several centimeters in diameter, composed in varying proportions of adipose tissue, lymphocytes, and primitive myeloid cells, probably a developmental abnormality. (Dorland, 27th ed)
fibrolipoma	A benign well-circumscribed tumor composed of mature adipocytes, characterized by areas of abundant fibrous tissue.
myxolipoma of fatty tissue	A benign well-circumscribed tumor composed of mature adipocytes, characterized by areas of abundant fibrous tissue and extensive myxoid change.
fat yellow	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
unilocular adipose tissue	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
benign lipomatous neoplasm	A benign mesenchymal neoplasm composed of adipose (fatty) tissue. The most common representative of this category is the lipoma.
lipoma; skin	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm arising from the skin.
skin lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm arising from the skin.
lipoma of eyelid	Fatty tumors on the eyelids. [ORCID:0000-0003-0986-4123]
body fat	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
fatty tumors on the eyelids	Fatty tumors on the eyelids. [ORCID:0000-0003-0986-4123]
lipoma of the external ear	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the external ear.
axillary lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the axilla.
multiple lipomas	The presence of multiple lipomas (a type of benign tissue made of fatty tissue). [HPO:sdoelken]
multiple fatty lumps	The presence of multiple lipomas (a type of benign tissue made of fatty tissue). [HPO:sdoelken]
myolipoma	A benign extrauterine tumor composed of mature adipocytes and smooth muscle cells.
myolipoma of soft tissue	A benign extrauterine tumor composed of mature adipocytes and smooth muscle cells.
fetal lipoma	Benign tumors of fatty tissues found in infancy and childhood. It is associated chromosomal aberrations that result in activation of an oncogene on chromosome band 8q12.
familial multiple lipoma	A rare autosomal disorder characterized by numerous encapsulated lipomas on the trunk and extremities. The lipomas are usually not painful but can cause pain when growing. In rare cases, one lipoma can become painful and progress to multiple painful lipomas; it is then referred to as Dercum's Disease Type III
lipoatrophy	Localized loss of fat tissue. [HPO:sdoelken]
brown adipose tissue	thermogenic type of adipose tissue containing a dark pigment, and arising during embryonic life in certain specific areas in many mammals, including man; prominent in the newborn of all species in which it occurs and remains a distinct and conspicuous tissue in the adults of certain species, especially those that hibernate.
epiploic appendage	Výběžky serózního pobřišnicového povlaku tlustého střeva, vyplněné tukovým vazivem, nejasné funkce. (upraveno podle Wikiskripta 2019 http://www.wikiskripta.eu/)
adipocyte	Cells in the body that store FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. WHITE ADIPOCYTES are the predominant type and found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue. BROWN ADIPOCYTES are thermogenic cells that can be found in newborns of some species and hibernating mammals.
necrosis;fat	A condition in which the death of adipose tissue results in neutral fats being split into fatty acids and glycerol.
multiple symmetric lipomatosis	A condition characterized by the growth of unencapsulated masses of ADIPOSE TISSUE symmetrically deposited around the neck, shoulders, or other sites around the body.
liposarcoma	A malignant tumor derived from primitive or embryonal lipoblastic cells. It may be composed of well-differentiated fat cells or may be dedifferentiated: myxoid (LIPOSARCOMA, MYXOID), round-celled, or pleomorphic, usually in association with a rich network of capillaries. Recurrences are common and dedifferentiated liposarcomas metastasize to the lungs or serosal surfaces. (From Dorland, 27th ed; Stedman, 25th ed)
lipoma spermatic cord	A lipoma that arises from the spermatic cord.
fetal fat cell lipoma	Vzácný benigní nádor u člověka, který se skládá z hnědých tukových buněk (podobných těm, které se vyskytují u hibernujících zvířat) s velkým množstvím mitochondrií. Vyskytuje se hlavně v podkoží interskapulární oblasti novorozenců.
hibernoma	Vzácný benigní nádor u člověka, který se skládá z hnědých tukových buněk (podobných těm, které se vyskytují u hibernujících zvířat) s velkým množstvím mitochondrií. Vyskytuje se hlavně v podkoží interskapulární oblasti novorozenců.
fatty neoplasm	Neoplasms composed of fatty tissue or connective tissue made up of fat cells in a meshwork of areolar tissue. The concept does not refer to neoplasms located in adipose tissue.
adipose tissue tumor	Neoplasms composed of fatty tissue or connective tissue made up of fat cells in a meshwork of areolar tissue. The concept does not refer to neoplasms located in adipose tissue.
neoplasm of the adipose tissue	Neoplasms composed of fatty tissue or connective tissue made up of fat cells in a meshwork of areolar tissue. The concept does not refer to neoplasms located in adipose tissue.
spindle cell lipoma	A benign circumscribed tumor composed of spindled cells, adipocytes, and collagen bundles. There is no evidence of nuclear hyperchromasia or mitotic activity.
foetal lipoma	A neoplastic process characterized by the presence of multiple lipoblastomas.
fetal lipomatosis	A neoplastic process characterized by the presence of multiple lipoblastomas.
aids wasting syndrome	Involuntary weight loss of greater than 10 percent associated with intermittent or constant fever and chronic diarrhea or fatigue for more than 30 days in the absence of a defined cause other than HIV infection. A constant feature is major muscle wasting with scattered myofiber degeneration. A variety of etiologies, which vary among patients, contributes to this syndrome. (From Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, 13th ed, p1611).
benign lipomatous tumour	A benign mesenchymal neoplasm composed of adipose (fatty) tissue. The most common representative of this category is the lipoma.
external ear lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the external ear.
lipoleiomyoma	A benign extrauterine tumor composed of mature adipocytes and smooth muscle cells.
tiss fat	Specialized connective tissue composed of fat cells (ADIPOCYTES). It is the site of stored FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. In mammals, there are two types of adipose tissue, the WHITE FAT and the BROWN FAT. Their relative distributions vary in different species with most adipose tissue being white.
lipoblastoma	Benign tumors of fatty tissues found in infancy and childhood. It is associated chromosomal aberrations that result in activation of an oncogene on chromosome band 8q12.
chondroid lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm characterized by nests and cord of abundant univacuolated and multivacuolated lipoblasts and mature adipocytes in a prominent myxoid to hyalinized chondroid matrix admix. It predominantly affects females.
familial multiple lipomatosis	A rare autosomal disorder characterized by numerous encapsulated lipomas on the trunk and extremities. The lipomas are usually not painful but can cause pain when growing. In rare cases, one lipoma can become painful and progress to multiple painful lipomas; it is then referred to as Dercum's Disease Type III
fat pad	Zapouzdřená tuková tkáň.
madelung's disease	A condition characterized by the growth of unencapsulated masses of ADIPOSE TISSUE symmetrically deposited around the neck, shoulders, or other sites around the body.
lipoma; spermatic cord	A lipoma that arises from the spermatic cord.
bilateral reduction mammoplasty	Surgery to reduce the size of both breasts.
pleomorphic liposarcoma	A liposarcoma characterized by the presence of varying proportions of pleomorphic lipoblasts in a background that resembles undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma. It is the rarest liposarcoma variant and usually has an aggressive clinical course. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3705" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3705" NCI Thesaurus)
myelolipoma	A rare benign tumor of the adrenal gland, several centimeters in diameter, composed in varying proportions of adipose tissue, lymphocytes, and primitive myeloid cells, probably a developmental abnormality. (Dorland, 27th ed)
lipoma of the tongue	A lipoma localized to the tongue. May present as a nontender, soft, spherical mass of the tongue. [HPO:probinson]
malignant neoplasm liposarcoma sclerosing	An atypical lipomatous tumor/well differentiated liposarcoma characterized by the presence of bizarre hyperchromatic stromal cells and rare multivacuolated lipoblasts within a fibrous stroma.
adipose tissue myxolipoma	A benign well-circumscribed tumor composed of mature adipocytes, characterized by areas of abundant fibrous tissue and extensive myxoid change.
mixed-type liposarcoma	A malignant neoplasm characterized by the presence of a combination of liposarcomatous morphologic subtypes: myxoid/round cell and well differentiated/dedifferentiated liposarcoma or myxoid/round cell and pleomorphic liposarcoma.
intramuscular lipoma	A benign tumor, composed of lobules of mature adipocytes, that penetrates the surrounding tissue from which it arises. There is usually a higher local recurrence rate when compared with non-infiltrating lipomas.
infiltrating lipomas	A benign tumor, composed of lobules of mature adipocytes, that penetrates the surrounding tissue from which it arises. There is usually a higher local recurrence rate when compared with non-infiltrating lipomas.
spinal cord lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the spinal cord. It is usually associated with dysraphism in which the intraspinal component communicates with a subcutaneous lipoma through a defect in the posterior elements of the spine. Non-dysraphic intramedullary spinal cord lipomas are very rare.
lipoma of breast	A benign, mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the breast. It is surrounded by a thin capsule and composed of mature adipose tissue cells. Atypia is absent.
pelvic lipomatosis	A neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the pelvic region. Clinical presentation includes complaints of back and abdominal pain, urinary frequency, perineal pain and constipation. It predominately affects black males.
endobronchial lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm located within the lumen of a bronchus. It is predominantly found in males and usually originates within the fatty tissue between bronchial cartilage. May cause irreversible pulmonary damage distally. Two-thirds of the tumors occur on the right side and most are located on the first three subdivisions of the tracheobronchial tree.
liposarcoma metastatic	A liposarcoma that has metastasized to a secondary site.
liposarcoma nonmetastatic	Liposarcoma that is confined to a specific site without evidence of spread to other anatomic sites.
liposarcoma recurrent	The reemergence of liposarcoma after a period of remission.
colonic lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm originating in the colon. It is the second most common benign lesion of the colon after benign adenomatous polyps. Older patients are more likely to be affected, and most lesions are located at the right side of large bowel. Colon lipomas may lead to intestinal obstruction.
abdominal panniculectomy	Surgical removal of excess skin and adipose tissue from the abdomen.
atypical lipomatous tumor	A locally aggressive mesenchymal neoplasm composed either entirely or partly of an adipocytic proliferation showing at least focal nuclear atypia in both adipocytes and stromal cells. "Atypical lipomatous tumor" and "well-differentiated liposarcoma" are synonyms describing lesions that are morphologically and genetically identical. Amplification of MDM2 and/or CDK4 is almost always present. (WHO 2020)
atypical spindle cell/pleomorphic lipomatous tumor	A benign adipocytic neoplasm, characterized by ill-defined tumor margins and the presence of variable proportions of mild to moderately atypical spindle cells, adipocytes, lipoblasts, pleomorphic cells, multinucleated giant cells, and a myxoid or collagenous extracellular matrix. It has a low tendency for local recurrence if incompletely excised. Unlike conventional atypical lipomatous tumors, there is no risk for dedifferentiation. (WHO 2020)
lipoma of bone	A benign neoplasm which is composed of adipocytes and arises from the surface of the bone or the medullary cavity.
liposarcoma of bone	A very rare liposarcoma that arises from the bone.
liposarcoma of breast	A liposarcoma that arises from the breast parenchyma.
cardiac lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the heart usually originating in the epicardial or pericardial fatty tissue.
central nervous system lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the central nervous system frequently found in midline locations such as the corpus callosum, the quadrigeminal plate, the hypothalamus, the spinal canal or the cauda equina. Some contain Schwann cells, bone, cartilage or hamartomatous blood vessels.
lipoma of the cerebral hemisphere	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm within the cerebral hemisphere often associated with partial or complete agenesis of the corpus callosum.
conventional lipoma	A benign well-circumscribed tumor, composed of lobules of mature adipocytes, that arises within subcutaneous tissue, deep soft tissues or on the surface of bones.
large intestine lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm arising from the wall of the colon and rectum.
corpus callosum lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the corpus callosum.
lipomatous tumor of the skin	An adipose tissue neoplasm arising from the skin.
liposarcoma of the skin	A liposarcoma that arises from the skin.
deep fatty neoplasm	A benign well-circumscribed tumor, composed of mature adipocytes, that arises within deep soft tissues.
diffuse lipomatosis	A neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue. It has been associated with several genetic disorders and different clinical conditions such as liver disease, excessive alcohol intake, adrenocortical steroid therapy, and antiretroviral therapy.
lipoma of epicardium	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the epicardium of the heart.
extradural spinal canal angiolipoma	An uncommon lipoma characterized by prominent vascularity that arises in the epidural space of the spinal canal.
liposarcoma of esophagus	A malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the esophagus, characterized by multivacuolated lipoblasts with hyperchromatic nuclei, a solid pattern of growth, and a rich vascular network. It arises from the mucosal and submucosal layers of the lower esophagus. Clinical presentation includes progressive dysphagia, nausea, throat discomfort, and foreign body sensation.
benign lipoma of gallbladder	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm involving the gallbladder wall.
liposarcoma of the stomach	A liposarcoma that arises from the stomach.
liver lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the liver.
intermediate lipomatous neoplasm	A lipomatous neoplasm characterized by a high risk of local recurrence and no risk of metastasis.
intracranial lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm located in the intracranial region. It is a congenital hamartomatous malformation derived from the embryologic meninx primitiva.
intracranial liposarcoma	A malignant adipose tissue neoplasm of the intracranial region.
lumbosacral lipoma	A benign well-circumscribed tumor, composed of lobules of mature adipocytes, that arises within the lumbosacral tissue of the spine.
lung myolipoma	A benign tumor of the lung composed of mature adipocytes and smooth muscle cells.
mediastinal lipomatosis	A neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the mediastinum.
mediastinal liposarcoma	A liposarcoma that arises from the mediastinum.
lipoma of mouth	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the oral cavity. It usually occurs within the lingual and buccal mucosa.
liposarcoma of ovary	A liposarcoma that arises from the ovary.
ovarian myxoid liposarcoma	A liposarcoma that arises from the ovary and is composed of round to oval mesenchymal cells, small signet ring lipoblasts, and a rich network of capillaries in a myxoid stroma.
paratesticular lipoma	A lipoma that arises from the paratesticular region. It is the most common paratesticular mesenchymal neoplasm.
lipoma of parotid gland	A lipoma that arises from the parotid gland.
peripheral nerve fibrolipomatous hamartoma	A tumor composed of mature adipocytes and fibrous tissue infiltrating the epineurium and peripheral nerves. It is often seen at birth or during childhood and may be associated with macrodactyly.
lipoma of pleura	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the pleural cavity. It may be purely intra-thoracic or extend to the chest wall.
rectal lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the rectum.
renal lipoma	A rare benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the kidney. It predominantly affects middle-aged females. It may originate from renal parenchymal fat or fat cells within the renal capsule. Clinical presentation includes hematuria and pain.
spindle cell/pleomorphic lipoma	A benign lipomatous neoplasm characterized by the presence of an admixture of mature adipose tissue and bland spindle cells. The pleomorphic variant contains in addition multinucleated giant cells. It usually arises in the neck and upper trunk in older males.
steroid lipomatosis	A neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the face, upper middle back, and sternal region. It is associated with adrenocortical steroid therapy or an increase in endogenous adrenocortical hormone.
lipoma of tendon sheath	A benign tumor, composed of mature adipocytes, that arises within the tendon sheath.
tonsillar lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm of the tonsils.
inflammatory liposarcoma	A rare morphologic variant of atypical lipomatous tumor/well differentiated liposarcoma occurring most often in the retroperitoneum. It is characterized by the presence of a predominant chronic inflammatory infiltrate.
appendix lipoma	A benign adipose tissue neoplasm involving the wall of the appendix.
central nervous system hibernoma	A rare benign slow growing adipose tumor, characterized by the presence of polygonal brown fat cells with abundant cytoplasm, that arises within the nervous system.
parathyroid gland hamartoma	A parathyroid gland adenoma that contains mature adipocytes.
spl terminology	Terminology used in the framework of the Structured Product Labeling documents.
thyroid gland adenolipoma	A thyroid gland adenoma composed of follicular structures and mature adipocytes.
liposarcoma of vulva	A rare liposarcoma that arises from the vulva.
vista	V-type immunoglobulin domain-containing suppressor of T-cell activation (311 aa, ~34 kDa) is encoded by the human VSIR gene. This protein plays a role in the negative regulation of T-cell function.
myxoid liposarcoma metastatic	Myxoid liposarcoma that has spread to other anatomic sites.
hexokinase ii	Hexokinase-2 (917 aa, ~102 kDa) is encoded by the human HK2 gene. This protein plays a role in carbohydrate phosphorylation.
vulvar lipoma	An uncommon benign neoplasm of the vulva, composed of lobules of mature adipocytes.
vulvar fibrolipoma	A lipoma of the vulva with a predominant fibrous component.
central nervous system angiolipoma	An angiolipoma that arises from the central nervous system.
unresectable liposarcoma	A liposarcoma which is not amenable to surgical resection.
t-cell activation g protein-coupled receptor	Hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 1 (346 aa, ~39 kDa) is encoded by the human HCAR1 gene. This protein plays a role in lactate-dependent G protein-coupled receptor signaling.
refractory myxoid/round cell liposarcoma	Myxoid liposarcoma that does not respond to treatment.
refractory liposarcoma	Liposarcoma that does not respond to treatment.
resectable liposarcoma	Liposarcoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
colon liposarcoma	A liposarcoma that arises from the colon.
parotid gland liposarcoma	A liposarcoma that arises from the parotid gland.
scrotal liposarcoma	A liposarcoma involving the scrotum.
advanced myxoid liposarcoma	A myxoid liposarcoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
locally advanced dedifferentiated liposarcoma	Dedifferentiated liposarcoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
advanced liposarcoma	A liposarcoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
unresectable myxoid liposarcoma	A myxoid liposarcoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
skin spindle cell/pleomorphic lipoma	A spindle cell/pleomorphic lipoma arising from the skin.
skin spindle cell lipoma	A spindle cell lipoma arising from the skin.
skin pleomorphic lipoma	A pleomorphic lipoma arising from the skin.
skin angiolipoma	An angiolipoma arising from the skin.
digestive system lipoma	A lipoma arising from an anatomic site in the digestive system.
tongue liposarcoma	A liposarcoma that arises from the tongue.
salivary gland lipoma	A lipoma that arises from a salivary gland. It usually occurs in the parotid gland.
superficial well differentiated liposarcoma	An atypical lipomatous tumor/well differentiated liposarcoma that occurs in a superficial body structure.
breast angiolipoma	An angiolipoma that arises from the breast. The majority are located in the subcutaneous tissue overlying the breast parenchyma, rather than in breast parenchyma.
myxoid pleomorphic liposarcoma	An exceptionally rare, aggressive adipocytic neoplasm, typically occurring in children and adolescents. Myxoid pleomorphic liposarcoma shows mixed histological features of conventional myxoid liposarcoma and pleomorphic liposarcoma and lacks the gene fusions and amplifications of myxoid liposarcoma, atypical lipomatous tumor, and dedifferentiated liposarcoma. (WHO 2020)
dercum's disease	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
arthralgia	Pain in the joint.
lipomatosis dolorosa	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
sleep disturbances	An abnormality of sleep including such phenomena as 1) insomnia/hypersomnia, 2) non-restorative sleep, 3) sleep schedule disorder, 4) excessive daytime somnolence, 5) sleep apnea, and 6) restlessness. [HPO:curators]
adiposalgia	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
chronic; pain	pain which has persisted over a long period of time; also use NTs for specific types of pain if appropriate.
dercums disease	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
muscle discomfort	Painful sensation in the muscles.
adiposis dolorosa	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
impaired memory	A disorder characterized by a deterioration in memory function.
lipomatosis; dolorosa	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
lipomatosis	A disorder characterized by the accumulation of encapsulated or unencapsulated tumor-like fatty tissue resembling LIPOMA.
subcutaneous lipoma	The presence of subcutaneous lipoma. [HPO:probinson]
morbus dercum	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
dercum dis	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
anders syndrome	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
adipose tissue rheumatism	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
subcutis	Fettvävnad under huden över hela kroppen.
subcutaneous fats	Fettvävnad under huden över hela kroppen.
morbus dercums	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
superficial fascia	Loose connective tissue lying under the DERMIS, which binds SKIN loosely to subjacent tissues. It may contain a pad of ADIPOCYTES, which vary in number according to the area of the body and vary in size according to the nutritional state.
adiposalgias	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
ander syndrome	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
panniculus adiposus telae subcutaneae	Fettvävnad under huden över hela kroppen.
subcutaneous adipose tissue	Fettvävnad under huden över hela kroppen.
dercum	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
tela subcutanea	Loose connective tissue lying under the DERMIS, which binds SKIN loosely to subjacent tissues. It may contain a pad of ADIPOCYTES, which vary in number according to the area of the body and vary in size according to the nutritional state.
subcutaneous tissues	Loose connective tissue lying under the DERMIS, which binds SKIN loosely to subjacent tissues. It may contain a pad of ADIPOCYTES, which vary in number according to the area of the body and vary in size according to the nutritional state.
dercum disease	A rare disease characterized by multiple tumor-like fatty deposits that press on nerves in various sites causing pain and weakness. Often these lipoma-like structures are located on the trunk and limbs but not on the face and hands.
skinned	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
adjustment disorders	Maladaptive reactions to identifiable psychosocial stressors occurring within a short time after onset of the stressor. They are manifested by either impairment in social or occupational functioning or by symptoms (depression, anxiety, etc.) that are in excess of a normal and expected reaction to the stressor.
culture shock	Social, psychological, or emotional difficulties in adapting to a new culture or similar difficulties in adapting to one's own culture as the result of rapid social or cultural changes.
adjustment disorder	Maladaptive reactions to identifiable psychosocial stressors occurring within a short time after onset of the stressor. They are manifested by either impairment in social or occupational functioning or by symptoms (depression, anxiety, etc.) that are in excess of a normal and expected reaction to the stressor.
brief situational non-psychotic disorder	Maladaptive reactions to identifiable psychosocial stressors occurring within a short time after onset of the stressor. They are manifested by either impairment in social or occupational functioning or by symptoms (depression, anxiety, etc.) that are in excess of a normal and expected reaction to the stressor.
emotional crisis	crucial, sudden, or decisive point or situation wherein emotional factors predominate.
adjustment disorder nos	Maladaptive reactions to identifiable psychosocial stressors occurring within a short time after onset of the stressor. They are manifested by either impairment in social or occupational functioning or by symptoms (depression, anxiety, etc.) that are in excess of a normal and expected reaction to the stressor.
prolonged grief disorder	A psychiatric disorder characterized by the personal experience of intense and prolonged yearning for, or preoccupation with the circumstances surrounding, a loss that leads to significant impairment in social or occupational functioning. Associated symptoms may include: identity disruption, disbelief, avoidance of reminders, difficulty moving on, emotional pain or numbness, feeling that life is meaningless, and loneliness.
trauma and stress related disorders	Disorders in which exposure to a traumatic or stressful event is explicitly a diagnostic criterion.
mental illness	Psychiatric illness or diseases manifested by breakdowns in the adaptational process expressed primarily as abnormalities of thought, feeling, and behavior producing either distress or impairment of function.
psychiatric illnesses	Psychiatric illness or diseases manifested by breakdowns in the adaptational process expressed primarily as abnormalities of thought, feeling, and behavior producing either distress or impairment of function.
acute stress disorder	Přechodná porucha vznikající akutně jako reakce na intenzivní duševní či fyzický stres u zdravé osoby. Příznaky vznikají okamžitě, mají ráz výrazné úzkosti, mohou být disociační poruchy, zoufalství, izolace, hněv, neadekvátní hyperaktivita, nekontrolovatelný zármutek, poruchy spánku, koncentrace, motorický neklid, znovuprožívání traumatické události. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2014 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz). V případě, že trvá déle než měsíc, jedná se spíše o posttraumatickou stresovou poruchu.
immunol adjuvant	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
immunoadjuvant	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
brucine	Brucine.
immunologic adjuvants	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
trehalose dimycolates	Toxic glycolipids composed of trehalose dimycolate derivatives. They are produced by MYCOBACTERIUM TUBERCULOSIS and other species of MYCOBACTERIUM. They induce cellular dysfunction in animals.
inosiplex	An alkylamino-alcohol complex of inosine used in the treatment of a variety of viral infections. Unlike other antiviral agents, it acts by modifying or stimulating cell-mediated immune processes rather than acting on the virus directly.
lentinan	Polysaccharide isolated from the edible mushroom LENTINULA EDODES. The exact composition is unknown.
immune adjuvant	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
levamisole	An antihelminthic drug that has been tried experimentally in rheumatic disorders where it apparently restores the immune response by increasing macrophage chemotaxis and T-lymphocyte function. Paradoxically, this immune enhancement appears to be beneficial in rheumatoid arthritis where dermatitis, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia, and nausea and vomiting have been reported as side effects. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p435-6)
polyadenylic polyuridylic acid	A double-stranded polyribonucleotide comprising polyadenylic and polyuridylic acids.
aluminium sulfate	An aluminum salt of sulfuric acid, an industrial chemical used in many industrial applications. In purification of drinking water, aluminum sulfate acts as a flocculating agent which causes impurities to coagulate and sediment, so that they are easily removed by filtration. It is also used as a mordant in textile dyeing and paper manufacture.
cell wall skeleton	A mucoprotein found in the cell wall of various types of bacteria. It has adjuvant and antitumor activities and has been used to augment the production of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells.
immunol adjuvants	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
flavone acetic acid	A synthetic flavonoid with vascular targeting properties. Flavone acetic acid exhibits an antiproliferative effect on endothelial cells as a result of a superoxide-dependent mechanism, which induces changes in permeability of the vasculature of the tumor. This agent may stimulate tumor necrosis and promote shunting of blood flow to viable regions of the tumor, increasing their oxygenation and rendering them more susceptible to the antitumor effects of hyperthermia and ionizing radiation. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1101" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1101" NCI Thesaurus)
klh antigen	A natural protein isolated from the marine mollusc keyhole limpet. Keyhole limpet hemocyanin is an immunogenic carrier protein that, in vivo, increases antigenic immune responses to haptens and other weak antigens such as idiotype proteins. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1139" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1139" NCI Thesaurus)
adjuvants immunol	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
mafosfamide	A synthetic oxazaphosphorine derivative with antineoplastic properties. Mafosfamide alkylates DNA, forming DNA cross-links and inhibiting DNA synthesis. Although closely related to cyclophosphamide, mafosfamide, unlike cyclophosphamide, does not require hepatic activation to generate its active metabolite 4-hydroxy-cyclophosphamide; accordingly, mafosfamide is potentially useful in the intrathecal treatment of neoplastic meningitis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1150" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1150" NCI Thesaurus)
mer-bcg	A cell wall fraction of bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) obtained by menthol extraction with immunomodulating properties and potential use in cancer immunotherapy. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1159" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1159" NCI Thesaurus)
monophosphoryl lipid a	A modified form of lipid A, the biologically active part of Gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) endotoxin, and a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist, with potential immunostimulatory activity. As a vaccine adjuvant, monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) stimulates both cellular and humoral responses to the vaccine antigen. Compared to LPS, MPLA exerts a similar immunostimulatory activity but with reduced toxicity.
swainsonine	An indolizidine alkaloid from the plant Swainsona canescens that is a potent alpha-mannosidase inhibitor. Swainsonine also exhibits antimetastatic, antiproliferative, and immunomodulatory activity.
azimexon	Azimexon (2-cyanaziridinyl-2-carbamoyl-aziridinyl-1-propane) is a derivative of 2-cyanaziridine. Immunostimulant which shows therapeutic effects in tumor models and experimental infections in vitro, enhancing T lymphocyte transformation and phagocytosis. The mode of action of azimexon is unknown. It has been suggested that azimexon may alkylate DNA. In cancer patients it increases leukocytosis, blood active T rosettes, T4/T8 ratio, and is used as an adjuvant to chemotherapy in the treatment of melanoma and myeloma.
imiquimod	A topically-applied aminoquinoline immune modulator that induces interferon production. It is used in the treatment of external genital and perianal warts, superficial CARCINOMA, BASAL CELL; and ACTINIC KERATOSIS.
lenograstim	A glycosylated form of a recombinant therapeutic agent which is chemically identical to or similar to an endogenous human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Produced endogenously by monocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells, G-CSF binds to and activates specific cell surface receptors, stimulating neutrophil progenitor proliferation and differentiation and selected neutrophil functions.
lisofylline	A drug that may protect healthy cells from chemotherapy and radiation without inhibiting the effects of these therapies on tumor cells.
edrecolomab	A murine monoclonal IgG2a antibody to tumor-associated epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM, or 17-1A) antigen. Edrecolomab attaches to EpCAM, a human cell surface glycoprotein that is found on normal epithelial cells and some tumor cells, such as those of colon and breast carcinomas. Upon binding, this agent recruits the body's immune effector cells, which may exhibit antitumor cytotoxicity. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1554" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1554" NCI Thesaurus)
immunomodulator	agents of both drug and biological origin often used in immunotherapy to stimulate, potentiate, or depress the immune response; also used to inhibit or enhance specific subclasses of immunocytes.
detox adjuvant	A cancer vaccine adjuvant consisting of a combination of the active monophosphoryl lipid A component of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) isolated from the bacterium Salmonella minnesota combined with a residue of the cell wall of the bacterium Mycobacterium phlei. Detox is a non-specific immunostimulant that may enhance the host immune response to certain cancer vaccines. (NCI04)
klebsiella pneumoniae glycoprotein	A glycoprotein complex extracted from Klebsiella pneumoniae K2O1 strain with immunostimulating property. This glycoprotein complex consists of 2 repetitive glycoprotein subunits; P1 comes from the bacterial capsule about 95 kD in molecular mass and F1, having an lipopolysaccharide-related structure (350 kDa), is derived from bacterial external membrane. Although the mechanism of action is not fully elucidated, Klebsiella pneumoniae F1 fraction appears to suppress monocyte apoptosis, hence inducing the differentiation of monocytes into macrophages. Furthermore, this agent also enhances humoral and cell-mediated immune responses, and increases natural killer cell cytotoxicity functions. This glycoprotein has been shown to reduce the incidence of infection.
aluminum hydroxide antacid	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
adjuvant	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
prasterone	major C19 steroid produced by the adrenal cortex; also produced in small quantities in the testis and the ovary; dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) can be converted to testosterone; androstenedione; estradiol; and estrone; most of DHEA is sulfated (dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate) before secretion.
freund adjuvant	An antigen solution emulsified in mineral oil. The complete form is made up of killed, dried mycobacteria, usually M. tuberculosis, suspended in the oil phase. It is effective in stimulating cell-mediated immunity (IMMUNITY, CELLULAR) and potentiates the production of certain IMMUNOGLOBULINS in some animals. The incomplete form does not contain mycobacteria.
hyaluronic acid	A natural high-viscosity mucopolysaccharide with alternating beta (1-3) glucuronide and beta (1-4) glucosaminidic bonds. It is found in the UMBILICAL CORD, in VITREOUS BODY and in SYNOVIAL FLUID. A high urinary level is found in PROGERIA.
oxazolone	Immunologic adjuvant and sensitizing agent.
immunological adjuvants	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
schizophyllan	A beta-D-glucan obtained from the Aphyllophoral fungus Schizophyllum commune. It is used as an immunoadjuvant in the treatment of neoplasms, especially tumors found in the stomach.
thymalfasin	A thymus hormone polypeptide found in thymosin fraction 5 (a crude thymus gland extract) but now produced by synthesis. It is used alone or with interferon as an immunomodulator for the treatment of CHRONIC HEPATITIS B and HEPATITIS C. Thymalfasin is also used for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced immunosuppression, and to enhance the efficacy of influenza and hepatitis B vaccines in immunocompromised patients.
thymopentinum	Synthetic pentapeptide corresponding to the amino acids 32-36 of thymopoietin and exhibiting the full biological activity of the natural hormone. It is an immunomodulator which has been studied for possible use in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, AIDS, and other primary immunodeficiencies.
freund's complete adjuvant	An antigen solution emulsified in mineral oil. The complete form is made up of killed, dried mycobacteria, usually M. tuberculosis, suspended in the oil phase. It is effective in stimulating cell-mediated immunity (IMMUNITY, CELLULAR) and potentiates the production of certain IMMUNOGLOBULINS in some animals. The incomplete form does not contain mycobacteria.
adjuvant immunol	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
bcg vaccine	An active immunizing agent and a viable avirulent attenuated strain of MYCOBACTERIUM BOVIS, which confers immunity to mycobacterial infections. It is used also in immunotherapy of neoplasms due to its stimulation of antibodies and non-specific immunity.
sizofiran	A beta-D-glucan obtained from the Aphyllophoral fungus Schizophyllum commune. It is used as an immunoadjuvant in the treatment of neoplasms, especially tumors found in the stomach.
immunoadjuvants	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
thymopentin	Synthetic pentapeptide corresponding to the amino acids 32-36 of thymopoietin and exhibiting the full biological activity of the natural hormone. It is an immunomodulator which has been studied for possible use in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, AIDS, and other primary immunodeficiencies.
cholera enterotoxin ct	An ENTEROTOXIN from VIBRIO CHOLERAE. It consists of two major protomers, the heavy (H) or A subunit and the B protomer which consists of 5 light (L) or B subunits. The catalytic A subunit is proteolytically cleaved into fragments A1 and A2. The A1 fragment is a MONO(ADP-RIBOSE) TRANSFERASE. The B protomer binds cholera toxin to intestinal epithelial cells and facilitates the uptake of the A1 fragment. The A1 catalyzed transfer of ADP-RIBOSE to the alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G PROTEINS activates the production of CYCLIC AMP. Increased levels of cyclic AMP are thought to modulate release of fluid and electrolytes from intestinal crypt cells.
cord factors	Toxic glycolipids composed of trehalose dimycolate derivatives. They are produced by MYCOBACTERIUM TUBERCULOSIS and other species of MYCOBACTERIUM. They induce cellular dysfunction in animals.
poly a:u	A double-stranded polyribonucleotide comprising polyadenylic and polyuridylic acids.
prodigiozan	A polysaccharide extracted from Serratia marcescens and other bacteria. It activates enzymatic activity of macrophages and stimulates phagocytic processes.
lithium chloride agent	A salt of lithium that has been used experimentally as an immunomodulator.
immunostimulating agent	Substances that augment, stimulate, activate, potentiate, or modulate the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level. The classical agents (Freund's adjuvant, BCG, Corynebacterium parvum, et al.) contain bacterial antigens. Some are endogenous (e.g., histamine, interferon, transfer factor, tuftsin, interleukin-1). Their mode of action is either non-specific, resulting in increased immune responsiveness to a wide variety of antigens, or antigen-specific, i.e., affecting a restricted type of immune response to a narrow group of antigens. The therapeutic efficacy of many biological response modifiers is related to their antigen-specific immunoadjuvanticity.
immuno stimulating complexes	A formulation for presenting an antigen to induce specific immunologic responses. It consists of an assembly of antigens in multimeric form. The assembly is attached to a matrix with a built-in adjuvant, saponin. ISCOMs induce strong serum antibody responses, and are used as highly immunogenic forms of subunit vaccines.
aluminum hydroxide	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
calmette guerin bacillus vaccine	An active immunizing agent and a viable avirulent attenuated strain of MYCOBACTERIUM BOVIS, which confers immunity to mycobacterial infections. It is used also in immunotherapy of neoplasms due to its stimulation of antibodies and non-specific immunity.
cholera toxin	An ENTEROTOXIN from VIBRIO CHOLERAE. It consists of two major protomers, the heavy (H) or A subunit and the B protomer which consists of 5 light (L) or B subunits. The catalytic A subunit is proteolytically cleaved into fragments A1 and A2. The A1 fragment is a MONO(ADP-RIBOSE) TRANSFERASE. The B protomer binds cholera toxin to intestinal epithelial cells and facilitates the uptake of the A1 fragment. The A1 catalyzed transfer of ADP-RIBOSE to the alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G PROTEINS activates the production of CYCLIC AMP. Increased levels of cyclic AMP are thought to modulate release of fluid and electrolytes from intestinal crypt cells.
levamisol	An antihelminthic drug that has been tried experimentally in rheumatic disorders where it apparently restores the immune response by increasing macrophage chemotaxis and T-lymphocyte function. Paradoxically, this immune enhancement appears to be beneficial in rheumatoid arthritis where dermatitis, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia, and nausea and vomiting have been reported as side effects. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p435-6)
ditiocarb	A chelating agent that has been used to mobilize toxic metals from the tissues of humans and experimental animals. It is the main metabolite of DISULFIRAM.
iscoms	A formulation for presenting an antigen to induce specific immunologic responses. It consists of an assembly of antigens in multimeric form. The assembly is attached to a matrix with a built-in adjuvant, saponin. ISCOMs induce strong serum antibody responses, and are used as highly immunogenic forms of subunit vaccines.
colforsin	saturated, polymethylated naphthopyran which stimulates adenylate cyclase and so is used to probe cyclic AMP pathways; USP lists colfosin as antiglaucoma agent.
hyaluronic acid preparation	A natural high-viscosity mucopolysaccharide with alternating beta (1-3) glucuronide and beta (1-4) glucosaminidic bonds. It is found in the UMBILICAL CORD, in VITREOUS BODY and in SYNOVIAL FLUID. A high urinary level is found in PROGERIA.
lithium chloride	A salt of lithium that has been used experimentally as an immunomodulator.
myeloid cell-growth inducer	Glycoproteins found in a subfraction of normal mammalian plasma and urine. They stimulate the proliferation of bone marrow cells in agar cultures and the formation of colonies of granulocytes and/or macrophages. The factors include INTERLEUKIN-3; (IL-3); GRANULOCYTE COLONY-STIMULATING FACTOR; (G-CSF); MACROPHAGE COLONY-STIMULATING FACTOR; (M-CSF); and GRANULOCYTE-MACROPHAGE COLONY-STIMULATING FACTOR; (GM-CSF).
tilorone	An antiviral agent used as its hydrochloride. It is the first recognized synthetic, low-molecular-weight compound that is an orally active interferon inducer, and is also reported to have antineoplastic and anti-inflammatory actions.
plerixafor	A bicyclam with hematopoietic stem cell-mobilizing activity. Plerixafor blocks the binding of stromal cell-derived factor (SDF-1alpha) to the cellular receptor CXCR4, resulting in hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) release from bone marrow and HSC movement into the peripheral circulation.
medicinal product	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
aldesleukin	A recombinant analog of the endogenous cytokine interleukin-2 (IL-2) with immunoregulatory and antineoplastic activities. Aldesleukin binds to and activates the IL-2 receptor, followed by heterodimerization of the cytoplasmic domains of the IL-2R beta and gamma(c) chains; activation of the tyrosine kinase Jak3; and phosphorylation of tyrosine residues on the IL-2R beta chain, resulting in an activated receptor complex. Various cytoplasmic signaling molecules are recruited to the activated receptor complex and become substrates for regulatory enzymes that are associated with the receptor complex. This agent enhances lymphocyte mitogenesis; stimulates long-term growth of human IL-2 dependent cell lines; enhances lymphocyte cytotoxicity; induces lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell and natural killer (NK) cell activities; and induces expression of interferon-gamma. Aldesleukin may induce T cell-mediated tumor regression in some tumor types. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1498" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1498" NCI Thesaurus)
interleukins	Soluble factors which stimulate growth-related activities of leukocytes as well as other cell types. They enhance cell proliferation and differentiation, DNA synthesis, secretion of other biologically active molecules and responses to immune and inflammatory stimuli.
aldesleukin - chemical	A recombinant analog of the endogenous cytokine interleukin-2 (IL-2) with immunoregulatory and antineoplastic activities. Aldesleukin binds to and activates the IL-2 receptor, followed by heterodimerization of the cytoplasmic domains of the IL-2R beta and gamma(c) chains; activation of the tyrosine kinase Jak3; and phosphorylation of tyrosine residues on the IL-2R beta chain, resulting in an activated receptor complex. Various cytoplasmic signaling molecules are recruited to the activated receptor complex and become substrates for regulatory enzymes that are associated with the receptor complex. This agent enhances lymphocyte mitogenesis; stimulates long-term growth of human IL-2 dependent cell lines; enhances lymphocyte cytotoxicity; induces lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell and natural killer (NK) cell activities; and induces expression of interferon-gamma. Aldesleukin may induce T cell-mediated tumor regression in some tumor types. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1498" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1498" NCI Thesaurus)
bacillus calmette-guérin vaccine	An active immunizing agent and a viable avirulent attenuated strain of MYCOBACTERIUM BOVIS, which confers immunity to mycobacterial infections. It is used also in immunotherapy of neoplasms due to its stimulation of antibodies and non-specific immunity.
choleragen	An ENTEROTOXIN from VIBRIO CHOLERAE. It consists of two major protomers, the heavy (H) or A subunit and the B protomer which consists of 5 light (L) or B subunits. The catalytic A subunit is proteolytically cleaved into fragments A1 and A2. The A1 fragment is a MONO(ADP-RIBOSE) TRANSFERASE. The B protomer binds cholera toxin to intestinal epithelial cells and facilitates the uptake of the A1 fragment. The A1 catalyzed transfer of ADP-RIBOSE to the alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G PROTEINS activates the production of CYCLIC AMP. Increased levels of cyclic AMP are thought to modulate release of fluid and electrolytes from intestinal crypt cells.
thiocarb	A chelating agent that has been used to mobilize toxic metals from the tissues of humans and experimental animals. It is the main metabolite of DISULFIRAM.
hyaluronans	A natural high-viscosity mucopolysaccharide with alternating beta (1-3) glucuronide and beta (1-4) glucosaminidic bonds. It is found in the UMBILICAL CORD, in VITREOUS BODY and in SYNOVIAL FLUID. A high urinary level is found in PROGERIA.
levamisole product	An antihelminthic drug that has been tried experimentally in rheumatic disorders where it apparently restores the immune response by increasing macrophage chemotaxis and T-lymphocyte function. Paradoxically, this immune enhancement appears to be beneficial in rheumatoid arthritis where dermatitis, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia, and nausea and vomiting have been reported as side effects. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p435-6)
thymopoietin pentapeptide	Synthetic pentapeptide corresponding to the amino acids 32-36 of thymopoietin and exhibiting the full biological activity of the natural hormone. It is an immunomodulator which has been studied for possible use in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, AIDS, and other primary immunodeficiencies.
iscom	A formulation for presenting an antigen to induce specific immunologic responses. It consists of an assembly of antigens in multimeric form. The assembly is attached to a matrix with a built-in adjuvant, saponin. ISCOMs induce strong serum antibody responses, and are used as highly immunogenic forms of subunit vaccines.
product containing lenograstim	A glycosylated form of a recombinant therapeutic agent which is chemically identical to or similar to an endogenous human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Produced endogenously by monocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells, G-CSF binds to and activates specific cell surface receptors, stimulating neutrophil progenitor proliferation and differentiation and selected neutrophil functions.
colony-stimulating factor	Glycoproteins found in a subfraction of normal mammalian plasma and urine. They stimulate the proliferation of bone marrow cells in agar cultures and the formation of colonies of granulocytes and/or macrophages. The factors include INTERLEUKIN-3; (IL-3); GRANULOCYTE COLONY-STIMULATING FACTOR; (G-CSF); MACROPHAGE COLONY-STIMULATING FACTOR; (M-CSF); and GRANULOCYTE-MACROPHAGE COLONY-STIMULATING FACTOR; (GM-CSF).
amifostine	A phosphorothioate proposed as a radiation-protective agent. It causes splenic vasodilation and may block autonomic ganglia.
interferon	Proteins secreted by vertebrate cells in response to a wide variety of inducers. They confer resistance against many different viruses, inhibit proliferation of normal and malignant cells, impede multiplication of intracellular parasites, enhance macrophage and granulocyte phagocytosis, augment natural killer cell activity, and show several other immunomodulatory functions.
aldesleukin product	A recombinant analog of the endogenous cytokine interleukin-2 (IL-2) with immunoregulatory and antineoplastic activities. Aldesleukin binds to and activates the IL-2 receptor, followed by heterodimerization of the cytoplasmic domains of the IL-2R beta and gamma(c) chains; activation of the tyrosine kinase Jak3; and phosphorylation of tyrosine residues on the IL-2R beta chain, resulting in an activated receptor complex. Various cytoplasmic signaling molecules are recruited to the activated receptor complex and become substrates for regulatory enzymes that are associated with the receptor complex. This agent enhances lymphocyte mitogenesis; stimulates long-term growth of human IL-2 dependent cell lines; enhances lymphocyte cytotoxicity; induces lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell and natural killer (NK) cell activities; and induces expression of interferon-gamma. Aldesleukin may induce T cell-mediated tumor regression in some tumor types. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1498" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1498" NCI Thesaurus)
pharmaceutical	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
interleukin	Soluble factors which stimulate growth-related activities of leukocytes as well as other cell types. They enhance cell proliferation and differentiation, DNA synthesis, secretion of other biologically active molecules and responses to immune and inflammatory stimuli.
calmettes vaccine	An active immunizing agent and a viable avirulent attenuated strain of MYCOBACTERIUM BOVIS, which confers immunity to mycobacterial infections. It is used also in immunotherapy of neoplasms due to its stimulation of antibodies and non-specific immunity.
cord factor	Toxic glycolipids composed of trehalose dimycolate derivatives. They are produced by MYCOBACTERIUM TUBERCULOSIS and other species of MYCOBACTERIUM. They induce cellular dysfunction in animals.
inosine acedobene dimepranol	An alkylamino-alcohol complex of inosine used in the treatment of a variety of viral infections. Unlike other antiviral agents, it acts by modifying or stimulating cell-mediated immune processes rather than acting on the virus directly.
aluminum hydroxide [antacid]	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
inosine pranobex	An alkylamino-alcohol complex of inosine used in the treatment of a variety of viral infections. Unlike other antiviral agents, it acts by modifying or stimulating cell-mediated immune processes rather than acting on the virus directly.
product containing levamisole	An antihelminthic drug that has been tried experimentally in rheumatic disorders where it apparently restores the immune response by increasing macrophage chemotaxis and T-lymphocyte function. Paradoxically, this immune enhancement appears to be beneficial in rheumatoid arthritis where dermatitis, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia, and nausea and vomiting have been reported as side effects. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p435-6)
tuberculin purified protein derivative	A purified protein extract derived from the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Intradermally-administered, PPD stimulates preprimed CD4 T cells in immunologically competent subjects previously exposed to the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis; these activated CD4 T cells secrete various cytokines that attract granulocytes, monocytes, and macrophages in an inflammatory response known as delayed hypersensitivity. (NCI04)
copovithane	A synthetic polymer (copolymer of 1,3-bis(methylaminocarboxyl)-2-methylenepropanecarbamate and N-vinyl pyrrolidone) of low molecular weight which acts as a nonspecific immune modulator and has been shown to have significant antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo in preclinical and some early clinical studies. The mechanism of action is unknown. Immunologic evaluation revealed some improvement in helper and suppressor T cell ratio, in vitro cytotoxicity tests, and lymphocyte blastogenic response. (NCI)
defensin	family of cysteine rich, 29-35 amino acid, natural antibiotic peptides.
diphencyprone	A synthetic, potent allergic contact sensitizer with potential immunostimulatory activity. After sensitization process by repeated topical application of diphencyprone to a specific area, further application of this agent to the affected area may stimulate an immune response and may potentially be useful to clear the affected area from infection or cancer. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C28994" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C28994" NCI Thesaurus)
poly iclc	A synthetic complex of carboxymethylcellulose, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid, and poly-L-lysine double-stranded RNA. Poly ICLC may stimulate the release of cytotoxic cytokines and, by inducing interferon-gamma production, may increase the tumoricidal activities of various immunohematopoietic cells. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1198" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1198" NCI Thesaurus)
staphage lysate	A preparation of bacterial lysate with potential immunomodulatory activity. Staphage lysate, obtained by phage lysis of Staphylococcal aureus, may be used as an antigenic stimulus to elicit non-specific humoral and cellular immune responses.
mifamurtide	A drug being studied in the treatment of young adults with bone cancer that has gotten worse or come back. L-MTP-PE activates certain types of white blood cells and helps the immune system kill cancer cells. It is a type of immunostimulant.
virulizin	A natural biological response modifier (BRM) isolated from bovine reticuloendothelial tissue. Viruzlin may enhance cell-mediated immune response to tumor cells by direct macrophage activation. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C26677" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C26677" NCI Thesaurus)
coneflower extract	An over-the-counter herbal remedy, extracted from North American herb purple coneflower belonging to the Family Asteraceae, with potential immunostimulating and anti-inflammatory activities. Echinacea extract might be helpful to boost the body's immune system and to help fight infections, especially those of the upper respiratory tract. This herbal remedy seems to increase the growth and activity of immune cells, including white blood cells, macrophages and natural killer cells, and to stimulate phagocytosis. Furthermore, echinacoside, one of the components in Echinacea extract, has been shown to inhibit hyaluronidase, whose action increases tissue permeability, thereby Echinacea extract may promote tissue growth for wound healing by preventing bacteria spreading into healthy cells.
beta-glucan	Beta-glukany jsou přírodní polysacharidy s různým stupněm polymerace, v zásadě rozpustné ve vodě, klasifikované jako rozpustná vláknina. Cereální beta-glukany jsou strukturální součástí buněčných stěn a jsou obsaženy v obalových vrstvách a endospermu obilného zrna. Skládají se z molekul glukózy vzájemně spojených β-glykosidovými vazbami. Struktura beta-glukanů, konkrétně typ vazeb v molekule, délka a větvení řetězce, se odlišují v závislosti na zdroji. V buněčných stěnách mořských řas jsou přítomny lineární β-(1→3)-glukany (např. laminarin). U kvasinek a hub se setkáme s beta-glukany, které obsahují vazby β-(1→3) a β-(1→6). Beta-glukany obilovin se odlišují obsahem β-(1→4) glykosidových vazeb. (upraveno podle Wikipedie 2020 http://www.cs.wikipedia.org/ a https://www.bezpecnostpotravin.cz/)
bci immune activator	A purified Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin, a potent antigenic protein capable of eliciting both humoral and cellular immune responses against tumor cells.
a-galcer	A potent alpha galactosylceramide modified from marine-sponge that stimulates the immune system to exhibit antitumor activity.
talimogene laherparepvec	An ICP34.5, ICP47-deleted, oncolytic herpes simplex type-1 virus (HSV-1) based on the JS1 strain, and encoding the immunostimulating factor human cytokine granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) with potential immunostimulating and antineoplastic activities. Upon intratumoral injection, talimogene laherparepvec selectively infects and replicates in tumor cells, thereby inducing tumor cell lysis. In addition, GM-CSF attracts dendritic cells (DCs) and may stimulate a cytotoxic T cell response against tumor cells, which results in immune-mediated tumor cell death. Deletion of the gene encoding for ICP34.5 provides tumor selectivity and prevents replication in healthy cells. As ICP47 blocks antigen presentation in HSV-infected cells, deletion of this gene may induce a more potent antitumor immune response in the tumor cells. Additionally, deletion of ICP47 causes increased expression of the HSV US11 gene and allows US11 to be expressed as an immediate early and not a late gene. This further enhances the degree of viral replication and oncolysis of tumor cells.
talactoferrin	An orally bioavailable recombinant human lactoferrin produced in the fungus Aspergillus niger with potential antineoplastic and immunomodulating activities. Upon oral administration, talactoferrin is transported into small intestinal Peyer's patches of the gut-associated lymphoreticular tissues (GALT), where it recruits circulating immature dendritic cells (DCs) bearing tumor antigens and induces their maturation. In the GALT, DC maturation in the presence of tumor antigens and lymphoid effector cells may induce systemic innate and adaptive immune responses mediated by anti-tumor natural killer (NK) cells, cytotoxic T lymphocytes, and natural killer T (NKT) cells; activation of tumor-draining lymph nodes, cellular infiltration of distant tumors, and tumor-cell death may follow. Raising the initial immune response in the GALT, distant from the primary tumor, may counter local tumor-mediated immunosuppression.
bacillus calmette guerin solution	A form of biological therapy for superficial (not invasive) bladder cancer. The solution is made from a weakened form of the bacterium Mycobacterium bovis (bacillus Calmette-Guerin) that does not cause disease but stimulates the body's immune system. A catheter is used to place the BCG solution into the bladder where it is held for about two hours.
bovine lactoferrin supplement	A supplement containing lactoferrin derived from bovine milk with potential chemopreventive, immunostimulating, and antimicrobial activity. Upon administration, lactoferrin binds to metal in the oral cavity and may prevent metal-induced oxidation of lipids. This may reduce the metallic taste and taste disturbances induced by certain metal-containing chemotherapeutics; metal-induced lipid oxidation, and the subsequent production of aldehydes and ketones attribute to the metallic smell. Lactoferrin, a glycoprotein belonging to the transferrin family of metal-binding proteins, can be found in milk and other secretory fluids as well as in polymorphonuclear cells and leukocytes; lactoferrin plays a role in the innate defense of mucosal surfaces and its iron-binding activity is associated with the antibacterial activity.
recombinant hgm-csf	An ICP34.5-, ICP47-deleted, oncolytic herpes simplex type-1 virus (HSV-1) isolated from the mouth of an HSV-1-infected patient of Chinese Han ethnicity, and encoding the immunostimulating factor cytokine granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) with potential immunostimulating and antineoplastic activities. Upon administration, the recombinant human GM-CSF HSV-1 selectively infects and replicates in tumor cells, thereby inducing tumor cell lysis. In addition, GM-CSF attracts dendritic cells (DCs) and may stimulate a cytotoxic T cell response against tumor cells, which results in immune-mediated tumor cell death. Deletion of the gene encoding for ICP34.5 provides tumor selectivity and prevents replication in healthy cells. As ICP47 blocks antigen presentation in HSV-infected cells, deletion of this gene may induce a more potent antitumor immune response in the tumor cells. Additionally, deletion of ICP47 causes increased expression of the HSV US11 gene and allows US11 to be expressed as an immediate early and not a late gene. This further enhances the degree of viral replication and oncolysis of tumor cells. Interruption of the ICP6 gene, which encodes the large subunit of the viral ribonucleotide reductase, in the viral vector also enhances selective replication in tumor cells.
qbkpn	A proprietary, lung-targeted, site specific immunomodulator (SSI), with potential immunostimulating and antineoplastic activities. Although the exact type and composition of the lung-targeted immunomodulator QBKPN has yet to be fully disclosed, upon subcutaneous administration, this agent is able to activate a local innate immune response in the lung tissue. This results in an increased number of M1 macrophages, which induces a shift from M2 to M1 macrophage dominance in the tumor microenvironment, and stimulates the recruitment of other immune cells. The M1 macrophages exert antitumor activity and eradicate lung cancer cells through phagocytosis. QBKPN does not induce a systemic immune response or affect other organs or tissues. Altogether, this SSI may decrease tumor cell growth in the lungs. SSIs contain specific, inactivated components of pathogens, such as bacteria and/or viruses, which normally cause an acute infection in the specific organ or tissue of interest.
lefitolimod	A synthetic oligonucleotide based on a proprietary double stem-loop immunomodulator design with potential immunostimulating activity. Lefitolimod binds to and activates intracellular Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) in monocytes/macrophages, plasmacytoidal and myeloid dendritic cells (DCs), and natural killer (NK) cells, initiating immune signaling pathways and inducing T-helper 1 cell (Th1) production leading to the production of memory T cells and a Th1-mediated immune response. By activating the immune system, MGN1703 may attack tumor associated antigen (TAAs). TLR9 is a member of the TLR family, which plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity.
adagloxad simolenin	A carbohydrate-based immunostimulant comprised of the Globo H hexasaccharide 1 (Globo H) epitope linked to the immunostimulant carrier protein keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon administration of adagloxad simolenin, the carbohydrate antigen Globo H may stimulate a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) response against Globo H-expressing tumor cells, thereby decreasing tumor cell proliferation. Globo H is a tumor associated antigen (TAA) commonly found on a variety of tumor cells including breast cancer cells. KLH improves antigenic immune recognition and T-cell responses.
simlukafusp alfa	A recombinant fusion protein comprised of a human monoclonal antibody directed against fibroblast activation protein-alpha (FAP) linked to an engineered, variant form of interleukin-2 (IL-2v), with potential immunostimulating and antineoplastic activities. Upon administration of simlukafusp alfa, the monoclonal antibody moiety recognizes and binds to FAP, thereby concentrating IL-2 in FAP-expressing tumor tissue. Subsequently, the IL-2 moiety of this fusion protein may stimulate a local immune response and activate natural killer (NK) cells and cytotoxic T-cells. FAP is a cell surface protein that is expressed on a wide variety of cancer cells. IL-2v cannot bind to IL-2 receptor-alpha (CD25, IL2Ra) and does not activate regulatory T-cells (Tregs).
nemvaleukin alfa	A selective effector cell activator protein and agonist of the intermediate-affinity interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor with potential immunostimulating and antineoplastic activity. Upon administration, nemvaleukin alfa binds to and signals through the intermediate-affinity IL-2 receptor complex; this may selectively stimulate and activate natural killer (NK) cells and memory CD8 T-cells, leading to tumor cell elimination, while circumventing the activation of immunosuppressive cells that may prevent the anti-tumor response. IL-2 is a cytokine signaling molecule that plays a critical role in the immune response.
tlr agonist	Any agent that binds to and activates toll-like receptors (TLRs).
chemo immunostimulant adjuvant	Adjuvant used in chemotherapy that acts by stimulating the immune system.
adjuvants vaccine	Substances consist of different components, e.g. aluminum salts, EMULSIONS such as MF59 and AS03, Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist or combinations of IMMUNOPOTENTIATORS (QS-21 and MPL in AS01), that helps increase the magnitude of an ADAPTIVE IMMUNE RESPONSE to a VACCINE.
bacillus calmette-guerin vaccine	An active immunizing agent and a viable avirulent attenuated strain of MYCOBACTERIUM BOVIS, which confers immunity to mycobacterial infections. It is used also in immunotherapy of neoplasms due to its stimulation of antibodies and non-specific immunity.
freund's adjuvant	An antigen solution emulsified in mineral oil. The complete form is made up of killed, dried mycobacteria, usually M. tuberculosis, suspended in the oil phase. It is effective in stimulating cell-mediated immunity (IMMUNITY, CELLULAR) and potentiates the production of certain IMMUNOGLOBULINS in some animals. The incomplete form does not contain mycobacteria.
prodigiosan	A polysaccharide extracted from Serratia marcescens and other bacteria. It activates enzymatic activity of macrophages and stimulates phagocytic processes.
schizophyllane	A beta-D-glucan obtained from the Aphyllophoral fungus Schizophyllum commune. It is used as an immunoadjuvant in the treatment of neoplasms, especially tumors found in the stomach.
bacillus calmette guerin vaccine	An active immunizing agent and a viable avirulent attenuated strain of MYCOBACTERIUM BOVIS, which confers immunity to mycobacterial infections. It is used also in immunotherapy of neoplasms due to its stimulation of antibodies and non-specific immunity.
diethyldithione	A chelating agent that has been used to mobilize toxic metals from the tissues of humans and experimental animals. It is the main metabolite of DISULFIRAM.
lenograstim rdna	A glycosylated form of a recombinant therapeutic agent which is chemically identical to or similar to an endogenous human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Produced endogenously by monocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells, G-CSF binds to and activates specific cell surface receptors, stimulating neutrophil progenitor proliferation and differentiation and selected neutrophil functions.
forskolin	saturated, polymethylated naphthopyran which stimulates adenylate cyclase and so is used to probe cyclic AMP pathways; USP lists colfosin as antiglaucoma agent.
aluminium hydroxide	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
product containing inosine pranobex	An alkylamino-alcohol complex of inosine used in the treatment of a variety of viral infections. Unlike other antiviral agents, it acts by modifying or stimulating cell-mediated immune processes rather than acting on the virus directly.
hyaluronan	A natural high-viscosity mucopolysaccharide with alternating beta (1-3) glucuronide and beta (1-4) glucosaminidic bonds. It is found in the UMBILICAL CORD, in VITREOUS BODY and in SYNOVIAL FLUID. A high urinary level is found in PROGERIA.
coleonol	saturated, polymethylated naphthopyran which stimulates adenylate cyclase and so is used to probe cyclic AMP pathways; USP lists colfosin as antiglaucoma agent.
pharm adjuvant	Agents that aid or increase the action of the principle drug (DRUG SYNERGISM) or that affect the absorption, mechanism of action, metabolism, or excretion of the primary drug (PHARMACOKINETICS) in such a way as to enhance its effects.
probenecid	The prototypical uricosuric agent. It inhibits the renal excretion of organic anions and reduces tubular reabsorption of urate. Probenecid has also been used to treat patients with renal impairment, and, because it reduces the renal tubular excretion of other drugs, has been used as an adjunct to antibacterial therapy.
pharmaceutical adjuvant	Agents that aid or increase the action of the principle drug (DRUG SYNERGISM) or that affect the absorption, mechanism of action, metabolism, or excretion of the primary drug (PHARMACOKINETICS) in such a way as to enhance its effects.
pharm adjuvants	Agents that aid or increase the action of the principle drug (DRUG SYNERGISM) or that affect the absorption, mechanism of action, metabolism, or excretion of the primary drug (PHARMACOKINETICS) in such a way as to enhance its effects.
probenecida	The prototypical uricosuric agent. It inhibits the renal excretion of organic anions and reduces tubular reabsorption of urate. Probenecid has also been used to treat patients with renal impairment, and, because it reduces the renal tubular excretion of other drugs, has been used as an adjunct to antibacterial therapy.
galactomannan derivative	A carbohydrate polymer composed of mannose and galactose, with chemotherapeutic enhancing activity. Galactomannan derivative binds to galectins on cell surfaces and may promote the transport of certain chemotherapeutics, such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), into tumor cells. This may increase the antineoplastic effect of 5-FU when administered concomitantly. Galectins are carbohydrate-binding proteins, upregulated on the surface of certain types of tumor cells, and may mediate cell association, survival and metastasis.
pharmaceutic adjuvant	Agents that aid or increase the action of the principle drug (DRUG SYNERGISM) or that affect the absorption, mechanism of action, metabolism, or excretion of the primary drug (PHARMACOKINETICS) in such a way as to enhance its effects.
amilomer	A synthetic microsphere formulation with arterial occlusive properties. Amilomer, a product produced by partially hydrolyzing starch and epichlorohydrin, contains degradable starch microspheres (DSM) with a diameter size of 45 micrometers that are readily degraded by amylase. When used in transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) procedures, infusion leads to lodging of the microspheres in the precapillary vessels and, consequently, to the occlusion of the hepatic artery. Local occlusion of selected blood vessels in conjunction with intrahepatic chemotherapy administration, results in elevated intracellular hepatocyte drug concentrations and enhances localized cytotoxicity against hepatic tumor lesions.
salcaprozic acid	An oral absorption promoter. Salcaprozic acid may be used as a delivery agent to promote the oral absorption of certain macromolecules with poor bioavailability such as the peptides insulin and heparin.
caricotamide	A synthetic co-substrate that activates the human endogenous enzyme NRH:quinone oxidoreductase 2 (NQO2) with potential chemoadjuvant activity. When caricotamide is administered simultaneously with the prodrug tretazicar, NQO2 converts tretazicar to the bifunctional alkylating agent dinitrobenzamide, which is capable of forming a high degree of DNA interstrand cross-links, resulting in the inhibition of DNA replication and the induction of apoptosis. NQO2 has been found to be over-expressed in cancers such as hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), colorectal and ovarian cancers.
snac sodium	The sodium salt form of salcaprozate, an oral absorption promoter. Salcaprozate sodium may be used as a delivery agent to promote the oral absorption of certain macromolecules with poor bioavailability such as insulin and heparin.
pharmaceutical adjuvants	Agents that aid or increase the action of the principle drug (DRUG SYNERGISM) or that affect the absorption, mechanism of action, metabolism, or excretion of the primary drug (PHARMACOKINETICS) in such a way as to enhance its effects.
potassium taurocholate	The potassium salt form of the bile acid taurocholic acid. Taurocholic acid is formed in the liver from cholesterol upon conjugation of cholic acid with taurine. Potassium taurocholate can be used to enhance the penetration and thus absorption of certain less lipophilic or hydrophilic substances through the skin or mucus membranes by increasing lipid solubilization.
encequidar	An inhibitor of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette (ABC) transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp), with adjuvant activity. Upon oral administration, encequidar selectively binds to and inhibits the multidrug resistance (MDR) efflux pump P-gp, which prevents the efflux of various chemotherapeutic agents from intestinal epithelial cells to the gastrointestinal tract. This leads to an increase in both oral bioavailability and therapeutic efficacy. P-gp prevents the intestinal uptake and intracellular accumulation of various cytotoxic agents. Encequidar is not systemically absorbed.
administration nos	Performing or possessing executive duties; acting as a supervisor or manager.
count	<p>Count of non-null values in the referenced set of values</p>
administration	Introduction of a substance to the body
other establishment activity	The establishment activity is other than that which already appears in the establishment activity value set.
administrative activity	Activities involved in the performance of executive, supervisory, or managerial duties.
administration of therapeutic medication	Introduction of a substance to the body
administration a	Užij ve spojení s léky pro dávkové formy, způsoby podávání, frekvenci a délku podávání, dávky léků a účinky těchto faktorů.
motesanib diphosphate	The orally bioavailable diphosphate salt of a multiple-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with potential antineoplastic activity. Motesanib selectively targets and inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGFR), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGFR), kit, and Ret receptors, thereby inhibiting angiogenesis and cellular proliferation.
admin cutaneous	The application of suitable drug dosage forms to the skin for either local or systemic effects.
medication administration	Preparing, giving, and evaluating the effectiveness of prescription and nonprescription drugs
drug admin cutaneous	The application of suitable drug dosage forms to the skin for either local or systemic effects.
medication	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
inhalation drug admin	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
inhalant administration each treatment	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
inhalation drug administration	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
inhaled drug administration	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
pulmonary body system	The tubular and cavernous organs and structures, by means of which pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange between ambient air and the blood are brought about.
inhalation route of administration	<p>Inhalation</p>
admin inhalation	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
respiratory use	<p>Inhalation</p>
breath treatment	Actions performed to support breathing treatments
administration drugs	Preparing, giving, and evaluating the effectiveness of prescription and nonprescription drugs
inhalation administration	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
respiratory systems	The tubular and cavernous organs and structures, by means of which pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange between ambient air and the blood are brought about.
drug admin respiratory	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
structure of respiratory system	The tubular and cavernous organs and structures, by means of which pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange between ambient air and the blood are brought about.
respiratory drug admin	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
inhalation route of drug administration	<p>Inhalation</p>
drug admin inhalation	The administration of drugs by the respiratory route. It includes insufflation into the respiratory tract.
nasal administration	Delivery of medications through the nasal mucosa.
drug/agent	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
intranasal administration	Delivery of medications through the nasal mucosa.
nasal	<p>Nasal</p>
medication administration: nasal	Delivery of medications through the nasal mucosa.
nasus	A part of the upper respiratory tract. It contains the organ of SMELL. The term includes the external nose, the nasal cavity, and the PARANASAL SINUSES.
intranasal drug administration	Delivery of medications through the nasal mucosa.
drug admin intranasal	Delivery of medications through the nasal mucosa.
nasal use	<p>Nasal</p>
vaginal administration	The insertion of drugs into the vagina to treat local infections, neoplasms, or to induce labor. The dosage forms may include medicated pessaries, irrigation fluids, and suppositories.
medication administration: vaginal	The insertion of drugs into the vagina to treat local infections, neoplasms, or to induce labor. The dosage forms may include medicated pessaries, irrigation fluids, and suppositories.
intravaginal admin	The insertion of drugs into the vagina to treat local infections, neoplasms, or to induce labor. The dosage forms may include medicated pessaries, irrigation fluids, and suppositories.
vagina	The genital canal in the female, extending from the UTERUS to the VULVA. (Stedman, 25th ed)
vaginal	<p>Vaginal</p>
birth canal	The genital canal in the female, extending from the UTERUS to the VULVA. (Stedman, 25th ed)
oral drug administrations	The giving of drugs, chemicals, or other substances by mouth.
oral medication	A pharmacological medication intended for administration through the mouth.
mouths	The oval-shaped oral cavity located at the apex of the digestive tract and consisting of two parts: the vestibule and the oral cavity proper.
oral administrations	The giving of drugs, chemicals, or other substances by mouth.
admin oral	The giving of drugs, chemicals, or other substances by mouth.
oral administration	The giving of drugs, chemicals, or other substances by mouth.
use oral	<p>Oral</p>
sublingual use	Administration of a soluble dosage form by placement under the tongue.
sublingual	Administration of a soluble dosage form by placement under the tongue.
edqm healthcare controlled vocabularies	The lists of Standard Terms were initially drawn up by the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.) Commission further to a request of the EU Commission, for use in marketing authorisation applications (MAAs), labelling (including the summary of product characteristics (SmPC)), and electronic communications. The European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines & HealthCare (EDQM), a Directorate of the Council of Europe based in Strasbourg, France, is responsible continuing this work. Standard Terms have the double purpose of bringing information to the patient/user/prescriber and distinguishing medicinal products having the same trade-name. Because of the labelling purposes it is imperative that any Standard Term is constructed with a view to the patient and the prescriber. It conveys essential information on the properties and uses of the particular medicinal products. To avoid a proliferation of over-complicated terms, complete information cannot always be included in a Standard Term, and should instead appear elsewhere in the labelling, in particular the package leaflet and SMPC. For more information, please visit: https://standardterms.edqm.eu
oromucosalroute	<p>Oromucosal</p>
admin sublingual	Administration of a soluble dosage form by placement under the tongue.
oromucosal route of administration	<p>Oromucosal</p>
topical drug administration	The application of drug preparations to the surfaces of the body, especially the skin (ADMINISTRATION, CUTANEOUS) or mucous membranes. This method of treatment is used to avoid systemic side effects when high doses are required at a localized area or as an alternative systemic administration route, to avoid hepatic processing for example.
topical microbicides	Obecně je to látka ničící mikroby. V současnosti se mikrobicid většinou chápe jako chemický prostředek používaný před pohlavním stykem, který zabíjí, neutralizuje nebo blokuje virus HIV a další sexuálně přenosné patogeny.
administrative district	A location defined for administrative purposes.
geographic region	header term for any geographic location; for D43 grants, and R03 TW grants (Fogarty International Center awards), index specific country when possible.
adnexa uteri	Appendages of the UTERUS which include the FALLOPIAN TUBES, the OVARY, and the supporting ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
oviduct	Organ with organ cavity which connects the uterine cavity to the peritoneal cavity. Examples: There are only two uterine tubes, the right and the left uterine tubes.
uterine adnexa	Appendages of the UTERUS which include the FALLOPIAN TUBES, the OVARY, and the supporting ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
mesovarium	The peritoneal fold that covers and attaches the ovary to the broad ligament. (NCI)
appendage of the uterus	Appendages of the UTERUS which include the FALLOPIAN TUBES, the OVARY, and the supporting ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
ligamentum suspensorium ovarii	Mesentery, each instance of which is a peritoneal fold lateral to and above some ovary which extends out to the wall of some pelvis; it contains some ovarian vessels and nerves and passes upward over some iliac vessels.
cardinal ligaments	Mesentery, each instance of which attaches the lateral side of some vagina and cervix to some lateral pelvic wall.
uterine adnexae structure	Appendages of the UTERUS which include the FALLOPIAN TUBES, the OVARY, and the supporting ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
fallopian tube	Organ with organ cavity which connects the uterine cavity to the peritoneal cavity. Examples: There are only two uterine tubes, the right and the left uterine tubes.
ovary	The reproductive organ (GONADS) in female animals. In vertebrates, the ovary contains two functional parts: the OVARIAN FOLLICLE for the production of female germ cells (OOGENESIS); and the endocrine cells (GRANULOSA CELLS; THECA CELLS; and LUTEAL CELLS) for the production of ESTROGENS and PROGESTERONE.
uterine ligament	Any of the eight ligaments pertaining to the uterus including the anterior, posterior, lateral, sacro-uterine and round ligaments.
pelvis minor	The part of the pelvis, inferior to the pelvic brim, that comprises both the pelvic cavity and the part of the PERINEUM lying inferior to the PELVIC DIAPHRAGM.
radical hysterectomy	Surgery to remove the uterus, cervix, and part of the vagina. The ovaries, fallopian tubes, and nearby lymph nodes may also be removed.
uterine appendage	Appendages of the UTERUS which include the FALLOPIAN TUBES, the OVARY, and the supporting ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
salpinx	Organ with organ cavity which connects the uterine cavity to the peritoneal cavity. Examples: There are only two uterine tubes, the right and the left uterine tubes.
parametrium	Mesentery, each instance of which is inferior part of some parametrium.
uterine ligaments	Any of the eight ligaments pertaining to the uterus including the anterior, posterior, lateral, sacro-uterine and round ligaments.
adnexa	Appendages of the UTERUS which include the FALLOPIAN TUBES, the OVARY, and the supporting ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
intra-pelvic structure of true pelvis	This structure comprises the space and content within the boundaries of the cavity of the true pelvis (also known as the cavity of the minor or lesser pelvis) but excludes the walls that define and enclose the space. Previously SNOMED CT used the word 'compartment' to describe structures comprising the cavity and content but FMA has used the same word to include cavity, content and wall. As a consequence, the preferred notation is intra-abdominopelvic structure as this more clearly excludes the 'wall' structures. The intra-pelvic structure is bounded by, but excludes the following 'wall' structures: superiorly the superior pelvic aperture; inferiorly the inferior aperture of true pelvis and pelvic diaphragm; and laterally the pelvic wall. Note, the structures that form the boundaries are excluded. The content includes the urinary bladder, sigmoid colon (although it is acknowledged that this is mobile and sits in a variable location), rectum, anal canal, pelvic segment of ureter and the retropubic and presacral space; the female pelvis also includes the ovaries, fallopian tubes, uterus, vagina, female urethra, soft tissues including the broad ligament and the retrouterine pouch of Douglas.; the male true pelvis also includes the prostate, male urethra, seminal vesicles, soft tissues including the pubovesical and puboprostatic ligaments and the retrovesical space.
ovarian structure	The reproductive organ (GONADS) in female animals. In vertebrates, the ovary contains two functional parts: the OVARIAN FOLLICLE for the production of female germ cells (OOGENESIS); and the endocrine cells (GRANULOSA CELLS; THECA CELLS; and LUTEAL CELLS) for the production of ESTROGENS and PROGESTERONE.
female reproductive system part	Any component of the female organs and tissues involved in the production and maturation of gametes and in their union and subsequent development as offspring.
uterus round ligaments	Nonskeletal ligament, each instance of which is a fibromuscular band that is attached to some uterus near the attachment of some uterine tube, passing then within the anterior lamina of some broad ligament, out through some deep inguinal ring, inguinal canal, and superficial inguinal ring to attach to the inner aspect of the skin of some labium majus.
adnexa of uterus	Appendages of the UTERUS which include the FALLOPIAN TUBES, the OVARY, and the supporting ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
gynecologic system	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
adnexal disease	Diseases of the uterine appendages (ADNEXA UTERI) including diseases involving the OVARY, the FALLOPIAN TUBES, and ligaments of the uterus (BROAD LIGAMENT; ROUND LIGAMENT).
product containing mifepristone	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
adnexitis	Inflammation of the appendages of the uterus.
pelvic inflammatory disease	A spectrum of inflammation involving the female upper genital tract and the supporting tissues. It is usually caused by an ascending infection of organisms from the endocervix. Infection may be confined to the uterus (ENDOMETRITIS), the FALLOPIAN TUBES; (SALPINGITIS); the ovaries (OOPHORITIS), the supporting ligaments (PARAMETRITIS), or may involve several of the above uterine appendages. Such inflammation can lead to functional impairment and infertility.
salpingitis and oophoritis	Inflammation of the fallopian tubes and ovaries.
uterine adnexitis	Inflammation of the appendages of the uterus.
salpingitis and oophoritis unspecified	Inflammation of the fallopian tubes and ovaries.
infection; tubo-ovarian	Inflammation of the fallopian tubes and ovaries.
tubo-ovarian inflammatory disease	Inflammation of the fallopian tubes and ovaries.
tubo-ovarian; infection	Inflammation of the fallopian tubes and ovaries.
pelvic inflammation	A spectrum of inflammation involving the female upper genital tract and the supporting tissues. It is usually caused by an ascending infection of organisms from the endocervix. Infection may be confined to the uterus (ENDOMETRITIS), the FALLOPIAN TUBES; (SALPINGITIS); the ovaries (OOPHORITIS), the supporting ligaments (PARAMETRITIS), or may involve several of the above uterine appendages. Such inflammation can lead to functional impairment and infertility.
urogenital	All the organs involved in reproduction and the formation and release of URINE. It includes the kidneys, ureters, BLADDER; URETHRA, and the organs of reproduction - ovaries, UTERUS; FALLOPIAN TUBES; VAGINA; and CLITORIS in women and the testes; SEMINAL VESICLES; PROSTATE; seminal ducts; and PENIS in men.
female genital tract structure	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
reproductive organ system	heading term for the organs, glands, tissues, etc that function in producing offspring.
adolescence	period of life beginning with the appearance of secondary sex characteristics and terminating with the cessation of somatic growth; typically between 12 and 20 years of age; when school grades are referenced, this age group is typically grade 5 or 6 and above; also index with appropriate human and clinical research terms.
adolescent pregnancy	Pregnancy in human adolescent females under the age of 19.
teenager	A person 13 to 18 years of age.
adolescence period	period of life beginning with the appearance of secondary sex characteristics and terminating with the cessation of somatic growth; typically between 12 and 20 years of age; when school grades are referenced, this age group is typically grade 5 or 6 and above; also index with appropriate human and clinical research terms.
self-mutilation	The act of injuring one's own body to the extent of cutting off or permanently destroying a limb or other essential part of a body.
risk for self mutilation	Susceptible to deliberate self-injurious behavior causing tissue damage with the intent of causing nonfatal injury to attain relief of tension.
teenage	period of life beginning with the appearance of secondary sex characteristics and terminating with the cessation of somatic growth; typically between 12 and 20 years of age; when school grades are referenced, this age group is typically grade 5 or 6 and above; also index with appropriate human and clinical research terms.
spinal osteochondrosis	Onemocnění páteře vznikající v období adolescence, někdy s rodinným výskytem. Projevuje se bolestí zad,změnami na obratlech a meziobratlových ploténkách, zejm. v hrudní páteři. Na rtg je patrná kyfóza hrudní páteře, deformace hrudních obratlů způsobená aseptickou nekrózou, typické jsou tzv. Schmorlovy uzly. Onemocnění se manifestuje převážně ve věku 10 až 13 let. Pohyb je omezen v oblasti středních a dolních hrudních obratlů, trup je lehce nakloněn dopředu, vsedě nastupuje rychle únava a bolesti zad. Při vhodné životosprávě a rehabilitaci je prognóza příznivá. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2013 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
selective mutism	A persistent failure to speak in certain social situations (i.e., school) where speaking is expected, despite speaking in other situations.
youth	period of life beginning with the appearance of secondary sex characteristics and terminating with the cessation of somatic growth; typically between 12 and 20 years of age; when school grades are referenced, this age group is typically grade 5 or 6 and above; also index with appropriate human and clinical research terms.
juvenile temporal arteritis	An extremely uncommon form of vasculitis. Eleven documented cases have been reported in the literature, affecting older children and young adults. In contrast to the classic form of temporal arteritis, it is not a systemic disease nor does it cause local symptoms at the temporal area.The term juvenile temporal arteritis was coined by Lie and his colleagues, in 1975, when they reported four cases of an otherwise asymptomatic disease presenting with a painless nodule at the temporal region. None of the cases showed evidence of systemic disease or history of trauma to the temporal region. Excisional biopsy of the lesions revealed a non-giant cell granulomatous inflammation of the temporal arteries with eosinophilic infiltration, intimal proliferation and micro aneurysmal disruption of the media. The disease has a benign clinical course, is treated by surgical excision and does not recur.
teen-age	period of life beginning with the appearance of secondary sex characteristics and terminating with the cessation of somatic growth; typically between 12 and 20 years of age; when school grades are referenced, this age group is typically grade 5 or 6 and above; also index with appropriate human and clinical research terms.
familial spinal osteochondrosis	A kyphotic deformity of the spine that develops in adolescence. The spinal deformity includes irregularities of the vertebral endplates, the presence of Schmorl's nodes, disc-space narrowing and vertebral wedging. The disease is diagnosed using lateral radiographs of the spine. The thoracic spine is most often affected, but the lumbar spine may also be involved. Analysis of the mode of inheritance in a sample of 90 pedigrees derived from the Siberian population supported an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance with complete penetrance in boys and incomplete penetrance in girls.
scheuermann kyphosis	Onemocnění páteře vznikající v období adolescence, někdy s rodinným výskytem. Projevuje se bolestí zad,změnami na obratlech a meziobratlových ploténkách, zejm. v hrudní páteři. Na rtg je patrná kyfóza hrudní páteře, deformace hrudních obratlů způsobená aseptickou nekrózou, typické jsou tzv. Schmorlovy uzly. Onemocnění se manifestuje převážně ve věku 10 až 13 let. Pohyb je omezen v oblasti středních a dolních hrudních obratlů, trup je lehce nakloněn dopředu, vsedě nastupuje rychle únava a bolesti zad. Při vhodné životosprávě a rehabilitaci je prognóza příznivá. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2013 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
elective mutism	A persistent failure to speak in certain social situations (i.e., school) where speaking is expected, despite speaking in other situations.
familial scheuermann disease	A kyphotic deformity of the spine that develops in adolescence. The spinal deformity includes irregularities of the vertebral endplates, the presence of Schmorl's nodes, disc-space narrowing and vertebral wedging. The disease is diagnosed using lateral radiographs of the spine. The thoracic spine is most often affected, but the lumbar spine may also be involved. Analysis of the mode of inheritance in a sample of 90 pedigrees derived from the Siberian population supported an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance with complete penetrance in boys and incomplete penetrance in girls.
early adolescence	A human life stage that begins at twelve years of age and continues until eighteen complete years of age. This phase marks the start of physical, physiological and psychological changes that characterize pubertal growth and development.
late adolescence	A human life stage that begins at nineteen years of age and continues until twenty-one complete years of age. This phase includes the final stages of pubertal growth and development as well as the attainment of significant psycho-social milestones.
adolescents behavior	Any observable response or action of an adolescent.
teen violence	<p>Teen violence refers to harmful behaviors that can start early and continue into young adulthood. The young person can be a victim, an offender, or a witness to the violence.</p> <p>Violent acts can include</p> <ul> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/bullyingandcyberbullying.html">Bullying</a></li> <li>Fighting, including punching, kicking, slapping, or hitting</li> <li>Use of weapons such as guns or knives</li> </ul> <p>Some violent acts can cause more emotional harm than physical harm. Others can lead to serious injury or even death.</p> <p>An important risk factor for violence in teens is the behavior of their friends and classmates. You should know who your kids hang out with and encourage healthy behavior and relationships.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
adolescent med	A branch of medicine pertaining to the diagnosis and treatment of diseases occurring during the period of ADOLESCENCE.
specialty	Various branches of medical practice limited to specialized areas.
adolescent medicine	A branch of medicine pertaining to the diagnosis and treatment of diseases occurring during the period of ADOLESCENCE.
adolescent psychology	Gren av psykologin som är inriktad på normalt och onormalt beteende hos tonåringar.
adolescent	A person 13 to 18 years of age.
psychol adolescent	Gren av psykologin som är inriktad på normalt och onormalt beteende hos tonåringar.
teen development	<p>As a teenager, you go through many physical, mental, emotional, and social changes. The biggest change is <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/puberty.html">puberty</a>, the process of becoming sexually mature. It usually happens between ages 10 and 14 for girls and ages 12 and 16 for boys. As your body changes, you may have questions about <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/teensexualhealth.html">sexual health</a>.</p> <p>During this time, you start to develop your own unique personality and opinions. Some changes that you might notice include</p> <ul> <li>Increased independence from your parents</li> <li>More concerns about body image and clothes</li> <li>More influence from peers</li> <li>Greater ability to sense right and wrong</li> </ul> <p>All of these changes can sometimes seem overwhelming. Some sadness or moodiness can be normal. But feeling very sad, hopeless, or worthless could be warning signs of a <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/teenmentalhealth.html">mental health problem</a>. If you need help, talk to your parents, school counselor, or health care provider.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
adoption	Voluntary acceptance of a child of other parents to be as one's own child, usually with legal confirmation.
adoptee	Anyone who has been formally adopted as a dependent. Limited to human populations.
families	A social group consisting of parents or parent substitutes and children.
familial	A social group consisting of parents or parent substitutes and children.
zona fasciculata of adrenal gland	The wide middle zone of the adrenal cortex. This zone produces a series of enzymes that convert PREGNENOLONE to cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) via 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPROGESTERONE.
zona glomerulosa of adrenal gland	The narrow subcapsular outer zone of the adrenal cortex. This zone produces a series of enzymes that convert PREGNENOLONE to ALDOSTERONE. The final steps involve three successive oxidations by CYTOCHROME P-450 CYP11B2.
cortex glandulae suprarenalis	The outer layer of the adrenal gland. It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE. Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
adrenals glands	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
adrenal fasciculata	The wide middle zone of the adrenal cortex. This zone produces a series of enzymes that convert PREGNENOLONE to cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) via 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPROGESTERONE.
suprarenal cortex	The outer layer of the adrenal gland. It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE. Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
zona glomerulosa of suprarenal gland	The narrow subcapsular outer zone of the adrenal cortex. This zone produces a series of enzymes that convert PREGNENOLONE to ALDOSTERONE. The final steps involve three successive oxidations by CYTOCHROME P-450 CYP11B2.
cortex of suprarenal gland	The outer layer of the adrenal gland. It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE. Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
zona reticularis	The inner zone of the adrenal cortex. This zone produces the enzymes that convert PREGNENOLONE, a 21-carbon steroid, to 19-carbon steroids (DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE) via 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPREGNENOLONE.
cortex	Organ component, each instance of which is an outer layer or region of some organ.
adrenal cortex structure	The outer layer of the adrenal gland. It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE. Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
adrenal gland	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
zona glomerulosa	The narrow subcapsular outer zone of the adrenal cortex. This zone produces a series of enzymes that convert PREGNENOLONE to ALDOSTERONE. The final steps involve three successive oxidations by CYTOCHROME P-450 CYP11B2.
addison dis	disease characterized by hypotension, weight loss, anorexia, weakness, and sometimes a bronze-like melanotic hyperpigmentation of the skin; due to tuberculosis or autoimmune induced disease (hypofunction) of the adrenal glands that results in deficiency of aldosterone and cortisol.
neoplasm of the adrenal cortex	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
cortex of adrenal gland	The outer layer of the adrenal gland. It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE. Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
hyperadrenalism	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
cortical	The outer layer of the adrenal gland. It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE. Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
congenital adrenal hyperplasia	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
adrenal hyperplasia	condition of diffuse enlargement of the adrenal glands; it is also a congenital disorder resulting from a defect in the synthesis of corticosteroids; in most cases the defect is in the enzyme 21-hydroxylase, which results in aldosterone and cortisol deficiency and an overproduction of androgen; common features include early masculinization of males and virilization of females.
bartter syndrome	transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait; characterized by hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the juxtaglomerular cells, and increased concentrations of renin, angiotensin II, and aldosterone in the absence of edema and hypertension.
bartter's syndrome	transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait; characterized by hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the juxtaglomerular cells, and increased concentrations of renin, angiotensin II, and aldosterone in the absence of edema and hypertension.
aldosteronoma	Adenom zony glomerulosa (jedna ze tří vrstev kůry nadledvin), který produkuje aldosteron a vyvolává hyperaldosteronismus.
nelson syndrome	A syndrome characterized by HYPERPIGMENTATION, enlarging pituitary mass, visual defects secondary to compression of the OPTIC CHIASM, and elevated serum ACTH. It is caused by the expansion of an underlying ACTH-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMA that grows in the absence of feedback inhibition by adrenal CORTICOSTEROIDS, usually after ADRENALECTOMY.
whitaker syndrome	Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome caused by homozygous, compound heterozygous, or heterozygous mutation(s) in the AIRE gene, encoding autoimmune regulator protein. Diagnosis requires at least 2 of the 3 major clinical features: chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, primary adrenal insufficiency, or primary hypoparathyroidism. Antibodies against type 1 interferons and interleukin 17 cytokines are almost always present. Heterozygous AIRE mutation(s) typically result in a narrower disease spectrum.
adrenal crisis	A life threatening condition due to inadequate concentration of glucocorticoids characterized by loss of vascular tone leading to hypotension, tachycardia, and eventual cardiovascular collapse.
adrenal adenoma	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
adrenal cortical adenoma	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
carcinoma of adrenal gland	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
adrenal cortical; adenocarcinoma	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
congenital adrenal gland hypoplasia	A rare genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It usually presents in infancy with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. If it is not recognized and treated promptly, it may be lethal.
congenital adrenal hypoplasia	A rare genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It usually presents in infancy with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. If it is not recognized and treated promptly, it may be lethal.
cush disease	Sjukligt tillstånd i hypofysen, kännetecknat av kraftig överproduktion av adenokortikotropt hormon. Detta leder till överproduktion av kortisol i binjurarna och till Cushings syndrom.
non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia	A milder form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia characterized by decreased activity of an enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway, typically presenting later in life, that does not require life-long cortisol replacement.
attenuated congenital adrenal hyperplasia	A milder form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia characterized by decreased activity of an enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway, typically presenting later in life, that does not require life-long cortisol replacement.
x-linked adrenal hypoplasia	A X-linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation(s) in the NR0B1 gene, resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein DAX1, which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
x-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita	A X-linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation(s) in the NR0B1 gene, resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein DAX1, which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
ahc with isolated gonadotropin deficiency	A X-linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation(s) in the NR0B1 gene, resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein DAX1, which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
hyperplasia of the adrenal cortex	Congenital or acquired hyperplasia of the cells of the adrenal cortex.
macronodular adrenal hyperplasia	Adrenal hyperfunction associated with multiple bilateral adrenal nodules, usually more than one centimeter in diameter.
macronodular adrenal disease	Adrenal hyperfunction associated with multiple bilateral adrenal nodules, usually more than one centimeter in diameter.
micronodular adrenal disease	Adrenal hyperfunction associated with multiple bilateral adrenal nodules, usually less than one centimeter in diameter.
micronodular adrenal hyperplasia	Adrenal hyperfunction associated with multiple bilateral adrenal nodules, usually less than one centimeter in diameter.
adrenal cortex cancer	A primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the adrenal cortex.
renal tubular acidosis type iv	selective aldosterone deficiency resulting from low renin production.
adrenal cortical insufficiency	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
peroxisomal acyl-coa oxidase deficiency	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the ACOX1 gene, encoding peroxisomal acyl-coenzyme A oxidase 1. It is characterized by increased concentrations of serum VLCFA and lack of ACOX1 activity. The clinical manifestations of this disease are similar to those of disorders of peroxisomal assembly.
zona reticularis of adrenal gland	The inner zone of the adrenal cortex. This zone produces the enzymes that convert PREGNENOLONE, a 21-carbon steroid, to 19-carbon steroids (DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE) via 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPREGNENOLONE.
adrenal cortex disease	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal cortical tumour	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
conn adenoma	Adenom zony glomerulosa (jedna ze tří vrstev kůry nadledvin), který produkuje aldosteron a vyvolává hyperaldosteronismus.
post adrenalectomy syndrome	A syndrome characterized by HYPERPIGMENTATION, enlarging pituitary mass, visual defects secondary to compression of the OPTIC CHIASM, and elevated serum ACTH. It is caused by the expansion of an underlying ACTH-SECRETING PITUITARY ADENOMA that grows in the absence of feedback inhibition by adrenal CORTICOSTEROIDS, usually after ADRENALECTOMY.
polyglandular type i autoimmune syndrome	Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome caused by homozygous, compound heterozygous, or heterozygous mutation(s) in the AIRE gene, encoding autoimmune regulator protein. Diagnosis requires at least 2 of the 3 major clinical features: chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, primary adrenal insufficiency, or primary hypoparathyroidism. Antibodies against type 1 interferons and interleukin 17 cytokines are almost always present. Heterozygous AIRE mutation(s) typically result in a narrower disease spectrum.
acute adrenal insufficiency	A life threatening condition due to inadequate concentration of glucocorticoids characterized by loss of vascular tone leading to hypotension, tachycardia, and eventual cardiovascular collapse.
adenoma of adrenal gland	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
adrenal cortex carcinoma	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
adrenal carcinoma	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
glucocorticoid deficiency with achalasia	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the AAAS gene encoding the protein ALADIN, and characterized by primary adrenal insufficiency, esophageal dysmotility, and absence of tear production.
cholesterol desmolase deficiency	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
conn's syndrome	overproduction of aldosterone by an adrenal cortical adenoma, characterized typically by low potassium levels, underacidity of the body, muscular weakness, excess urination, excess thirst, and high blood pressure.
straight-chain acyl-coa oxidase deficiency	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the ACOX1 gene, encoding peroxisomal acyl-coenzyme A oxidase 1. It is characterized by increased concentrations of serum VLCFA and lack of ACOX1 activity. The clinical manifestations of this disease are similar to those of disorders of peroxisomal assembly.
isolated glucocorticoid deficiency	Abnormally low or absent production of glucocorticoids, characterized by unresponsiveness to adrenocorticotropic hormone. It is hereditary and potentially lethal.
familial aldosterone deficiency	A rare inherited defect of the final step of aldosterone biosynthesis (conversion of deoxycorticosterone to aldosterone). It is due to mutations of the /CYP11B2/ (aldosterone synthase) gene and usually presents in infancy as a life-threatening electrolyte imbalance.
primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease	Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) is a form of bilateral adrenocortical hyperplasia that is often associated with adrenocorticotrophin hormone independent Cushing syndrome. The disease has characteristics of small to normal sized adrenal glands containing multiple small cortical pigmented nodules. A substantial proportion of patients present during early childhood (2-3 years). More than 90% of reported cases of PPNAD occur as one of the manifestations of Carney complex. The condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and can be associated with mutations in the PRKAR1A, PDE11A and PDE8B genes.
suprarenal gland	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
relapsed adrenal cortex carcinoma	The reemergence of adrenal cortex carcinoma after a period of remission.
black; adenoma	A usually functioning adenoma of the adrenal cortex. Grossly, it has a dark brown appearance and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic cells containing abundant intracytoplasmic lipofuscin. It may be associated with Cushing syndrome.
mixed cell adrenal cortical adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex composed of a mixed neoplastic cellular population, including varying numbers of neoplastic clear and compact cells.
malignant adrenal gland chromaffinoma	A pheochromocytoma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites. Common sites of metastasis include lymph nodes, bones, liver, and lung. Morphologic features associated with malignant pheochromocytomas include: atypical mitotic figures, capsular and vascular invasion, tumor cell necrosis, and high mitotic activity.
malignant neoplasm of adrenal medulla	A primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the adrenal medulla.
adrenal neuroblastoma	A neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland.
stage iii adrenal cortex carcinoma	Stage III includes: (T1, N1, M0); (T2, N1, M0); (T3, N0, M0). T1: Tumor 5 cm or less in greatest dimension, no extra-adrenal invasion. T2: Tumor greater than 5 cm, no extra-adrenal invasion. T3: Tumor of any size with local invasion, but not invading adjacent organs. N1: Metastasis in regional lymph node(s). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
localized adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A pheochromocytoma that does not invade surrounding tissues and is confined to the adrenal glands.
benign adrenal cortical tumor	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal cortex.
adrenal cortex oncocytic adenoma	A usually non-functioning variant of adrenal cortex adenoma, composed of large cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm.
adrenal cortical cell	An endocrine glandular cell located on the surface of the adrenal gland (adrenal cortex). It is responsible for the synthesis of glucocorticoids, aldosterone, and androgens.
adrenal cortex adenomatoid tumor	A benign adrenal cortex neoplasm deriving from mesothelial cells.
adrenal gland composite pheochromocytoma	A benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the adrenal medulla. It combines morphologic characteristics of pheochromocytoma and neuroectodermal tumors such as neuroblastoma, ganglioneuroma, ganglioneuroblastoma, or peripheral nerve sheath tumor.
benign adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A sporadic or familial pheochromocytoma that is confined to the adrenal gland and does not have any metastatic potential. The majority of cases are sporadic, and usually unilateral. Familial cases are usually bilateral.
estrogen-producing adrenal cortical adenoma	A rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces estrogens. Male patients may develop gynecomastia and impotence.
relapsed adrenal gland chromaffinoma	The reemergence of a pheochromocytoma following surgical removal.
regional adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A pheochromocytoma that has not spread to other regions.
well differentiated adrenal cortex carcinoma	An adrenal cortex carcinoma characterized by the presence of morphologic and cytologic features reminiscent of the normal adrenal cortex and absence of sarcomatous or anaplastic features.
benign adrenal gland composite pheochromocytoma	A benign neoplasm of the adrenal gland medulla, composed of medullary and neuroectodermal components.
stage i adrenocortical cancer	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor measuring 5 cm or less in greatest dimension, with no extra-adrenal invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
unresectable adrenal cortex carcinoma	Adrenal cortex carcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
metastatic adrenal cortex carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the adrenal cortex and has metastasized to another anatomic site.
adrenal gland schwannoma	A rare schwannoma that arises from the adrenal medulla.
locally advanced adrenal cortex carcinoma	Adrenal cortex carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
disorder of adrenal cortex	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
disease of adrenal cortex	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal cortex--diseases	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal cortex diseases	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
secondary aldosteronism	A form of hyperaldosteronism caused by abnormally increased renin levels. [DDD:spark]
adrenal disorder gland	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal cortex tumor	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal cortical hypofunctions	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
conn syndrome	overproduction of aldosterone by an adrenal cortical adenoma, characterized typically by low potassium levels, underacidity of the body, muscular weakness, excess urination, excess thirst, and high blood pressure.
adrenal disorder	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
corticosteroid	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
iohexol	An effective non-ionic, water-soluble contrast agent which is used in myelography, arthrography, nephroangiography, arteriography, and other radiographic procedures. Its low systemic toxicity is the combined result of low chemotoxicity and low osmolality.
corticoids	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
corticosterone	An adrenocortical steroid that has modest but significant activities as a mineralocorticoid and a glucocorticoid. (From Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p1437)
adrenal cortex hormone	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
adrenal hormone product	Hormones made from cholesterol and protein produced by the adrenal glands and regulate electrolyte balance, blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar balance, and immune system control.
corticoid preparation	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
adrenal hormone	Hormones made from cholesterol and protein produced by the adrenal glands and regulate electrolyte balance, blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar balance, and immune system control.
adrenal cortex hormones	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
corticosteroids	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
adrenal hormone-containing product	Hormones made from cholesterol and protein produced by the adrenal glands and regulate electrolyte balance, blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar balance, and immune system control.
anacal suppository	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
product containing glucocorticoid	A group of CORTICOSTEROIDS that affect carbohydrate metabolism (GLUCONEOGENESIS, liver glycogen deposition, elevation of BLOOD SUGAR), inhibit ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE secretion, and possess pronounced anti-inflammatory activity. They also play a role in fat and protein metabolism, maintenance of arterial blood pressure, alteration of the connective tissue response to injury, reduction in the number of circulating lymphocytes, and functioning of the central nervous system.
medrysone	A topical, synthetic glucocorticoid with metabolic, anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic properties. Medrysone exerts its effect by interacting with specific intracellular glucocorticoid receptors and subsequently binds to DNA to modify gene expression. This results in an induction of the synthesis of certain anti-inflammatory proteins while inhibiting the synthesis of certain inflammatory mediators. Consequently, an overall reduction in chronic inflammation and autoimmune reactions is accomplished.
product containing clobetasol	A derivative of PREDNISOLONE with high glucocorticoid activity and low mineralocorticoid activity. Absorbed through the skin faster than FLUOCINONIDE, it is used topically in treatment of PSORIASIS but may cause marked adrenocortical suppression.
desonide	A nonfluorinated corticosteroid anti-inflammatory agent used topically for DERMATOSES.
desoximetasone	A topical anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid used in DERMATOSES, skin allergies, PSORIASIS, etc.
glucocorticoids	A group of CORTICOSTEROIDS that affect carbohydrate metabolism (GLUCONEOGENESIS, liver glycogen deposition, elevation of BLOOD SUGAR), inhibit ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE secretion, and possess pronounced anti-inflammatory activity. They also play a role in fat and protein metabolism, maintenance of arterial blood pressure, alteration of the connective tissue response to injury, reduction in the number of circulating lymphocytes, and functioning of the central nervous system.
halcinonide	A glucocorticoid used topically in the treatment of DERMATITIS; ECZEMA; or PSORIASIS. It may cause skin irritation.
estropipate preparation	A natural estrogenic substance composed of estrone sulfate and piperazine. Estropipate diffuses through the cell membrane and binds to and subsequently activates the nuclear estrogen receptor found in the reproductive tract, breast, pituitary, hypothalamus, liver, and bone. The activated complex binds to the estrogen response element on the DNA and activates the transcription of genes involved in the functioning of the female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics.
trilostane product	A synthetic derivative of androstane with adrenocortical suppressive properties. Trilostane reversibly inhibits 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase delta 5-4 isomerase in the adrenal cortex, resulting in the decreased synthesis of mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids and the decreased conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1263" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1263" NCI Thesaurus)
fluticasone	A synthetic trifluorinated glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiallergic, antiinflammatory and antipruritic effects. Fluticasone binds and activates glucocorticoid receptor, resulting in the activation of lipocortin. Lipocortin, in turn, inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2, which triggers a cascade of reactions involved in the synthesis of inflammatory mediators, such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leads to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
adrenal cortex steroids	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
corticosteroids topical	Any synthetic steroid derivative exhibiting the same function as the naturally occurring corticosteroid hormone, formulated for topical application. Topical corticosteroids are applied to the skin where it exerts its effect, however, corticosteroids can be absorbed systemically after being applied locally. Topical corticosteroids are mainly used for the localized treatment of inflammation of the skin and help relieve symptoms such as itching, swelling and redness.
diflorasone	A synthetic glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Like other glucocorticoids, diflorasone enters the cell by diffusion across the cell membrane and binds to the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in the cytoplasm. The receptor complex subsequently translocates to the nucleus and activates or represses genes by interacting with short, palindromic DNA sequences called glucocorticoid response element (GRE). Gene activation leads to the exertion of anti-inflammatory effects, e.g. upregulation of IkappaB, while gene repression inhibits production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-2 and IL-6, thereby preventing activation of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes.
mometasone	A drug that is used in a cream to treat certain skin conditions and in a nasal spray to treat sinus problems caused by allergies. It is being studied as a way to treat inflammation of the skin caused by radiation therapy. Mometasone is a type of corticosteroid.
adrenal cortical hormone	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
exemestane	A synthetic androgen analogue. Exemestane binds irreversibly to and inhibits the enzyme aromatase, thereby blocking the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and the peripheral aromatization of androgenic precursors into estrogens. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1097" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1097" NCI Thesaurus)
ciclesonide	A nonhalogenated, synthetic, inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) with anti-inflammatory and potential antiviral activities. Upon administration by oral inhalation into the lungs, ciclesonide (CIC) is converted by local esterases to its active metabolite desisobutyryl-ciclesonide (des-CIC), which binds to intracellular glucocorticoid receptors (GRs). The ligand-bound GRs regulate gene expressions, which lead to inhibitory activities against multiple cell types, such as mast cells, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes, macrophages and neutrophils, and various mediators associated with inflammation, such as histamine, eicosanoids, leukotrienes and cytokines. In addition, ciclesonide may suppress the replication of human coronavirus by targeting viral nonstructural protein 15 (NSP15).
fulvestrant	An estradiol derivative and estrogen receptor antagonist that is used for the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
steroids	A group of polycyclic compounds closely related biochemically to TERPENES. They include cholesterol, numerous hormones, precursors of certain vitamins, bile acids, alcohols (STEROLS), and certain natural drugs and poisons. Steroids have a common nucleus, a fused, reduced 17-carbon atom ring system, cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene. Most steroids also have two methyl groups and an aliphatic side-chain attached to the nucleus. (From Hawley's Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 11th ed)
corticoid	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
corticosteroids [skin]	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
myopathies steroid	A non-neoplastic disorder affecting the skeletal muscles. It is caused by damage to muscle fibers either by excessive intake of corticosteroids (steroid treatment) or high levels of endogenous corticosteroids due to hormonal abnormalities. Patients usually present with weakness mainly in the proximal muscles of the upper and lower extremities and the neck flexors.
lupus miliaris disseminatus faciei	A variant of rosacea.
adrenal hormone preparation	Hormones made from cholesterol and protein produced by the adrenal glands and regulate electrolyte balance, blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar balance, and immune system control.
clobetasol	A derivative of PREDNISOLONE with high glucocorticoid activity and low mineralocorticoid activity. Absorbed through the skin faster than FLUOCINONIDE, it is used topically in treatment of PSORIASIS but may cause marked adrenocortical suppression.
desoximetasona	A topical anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid used in DERMATOSES, skin allergies, PSORIASIS, etc.
estrone	An aromatized C18 steroid with a 3-hydroxyl group and a 17-ketone, a major mammalian estrogen. It is converted from ANDROSTENEDIONE directly, or from TESTOSTERONE via ESTRADIOL. In humans, it is produced primarily by the cyclic ovaries, PLACENTA, and the ADIPOSE TISSUE of men and postmenopausal women.
fluocortolone	A glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory activity used topically for various skin disorders.
formestane	A synthetic steroidal substance with antineoplastic activity. Formestane binds irreversibly to and inhibits the enzyme aromatase, thereby blocking the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and the peripheral aromatization of androgenic precursors into estrogens. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C974" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C974" NCI Thesaurus)
adrenal cortical hormone-containing product	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
deflazacort	A synthetic glucocorticoid prodrug, with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating properties. Upon administration, the active metabolite of deflazacort, 21-desacetyl deflazacort, binds to and activates tissue glucocorticoid receptors. This results in the inhibition of specific leukocyte functions and the inhibition of proinflammatory cytokine production.
fluocinolone	A synthetic glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory and antipruritic activities. Fluocinolone binds the glucocorticoid receptor, followed by translocation of the ligand-receptor complex to the nucleus and transcription activation of genes containing glucocorticoid-responsive elements. Lipocortin-1 is one factor induced by fluocinolone that interacts with and inhibits cytosolic phospholipase 2 alpha, thereby preventing phospholipase translocation to the perinuclear membrane and subsequent release and conversion of arachidonic acid to inflammatory prostaglandins. In addition, MAPK phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby preventing the triggering of the MAPK cascade resulting in pro-inflammatory effects via Jun N-terminal kinase and c-Jun. Finally, fluocinolone binds to and inhibits nuclear factor kappa-B directly, resulting in inhibition of cyclooxygenase 2 transcription and subsequent prostaglandin synthesis.
product containing corticosteroid	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
rimexolone	A derivative of prednisolone, a synthetic glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive property. Upon binding to the cytosolic glucocorticoid receptor and cell entry, rimexolone activates specific glucocorticoid response elements, resulting in altered gene expression. These include induction of synthesis of anti-inflammatory protein IkappaB-alpha and inhibition of synthesis of nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappa B). As a result, pro-inflammatory cytokine production such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-2 and IL-6 is down-regulated and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activation inhibited. Therefore, an overall reduction in chronic inflammation and autoimmune reactions may be achieved.
topical corticosteroid preparation	Any synthetic steroid derivative exhibiting the same function as the naturally occurring corticosteroid hormone, formulated for topical application. Topical corticosteroids are applied to the skin where it exerts its effect, however, corticosteroids can be absorbed systemically after being applied locally. Topical corticosteroids are mainly used for the localized treatment of inflammation of the skin and help relieve symptoms such as itching, swelling and redness.
anacal pessary	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
steroid compound	A group of polycyclic compounds closely related biochemically to TERPENES. They include cholesterol, numerous hormones, precursors of certain vitamins, bile acids, alcohols (STEROLS), and certain natural drugs and poisons. Steroids have a common nucleus, a fused, reduced 17-carbon atom ring system, cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene. Most steroids also have two methyl groups and an aliphatic side-chain attached to the nucleus. (From Hawley's Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 11th ed)
cortisone	A naturally occurring glucocorticoid that has been used in replacement therapy for ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY and as an anti-inflammatory agent. Cortisone itself is inactive; it is converted in the liver to the active metabolite HYDROCORTISONE. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p726)
product containing adrenal hormone	Hormones made from cholesterol and protein produced by the adrenal glands and regulate electrolyte balance, blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar balance, and immune system control.
aldosterone	A hormone secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX that regulates electrolyte and water balance by increasing the renal retention of sodium and the excretion of potassium.
adrenal hormones	Hormones made from cholesterol and protein produced by the adrenal glands and regulate electrolyte balance, blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar balance, and immune system control.
pediatric rheumatology terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events observed in clinical care and research in children and adolescents seen by experts in diseases of joints, muscles, and bones.
adrenal corticosteroids	HORMONES produced by the ADRENAL CORTEX, including both steroid and peptide hormones. The major hormones produced are HYDROCORTISONE and ALDOSTERONE.
adrenal agent	Pharmacological agents which affect the function of the adrenal glands.
adrenal cortical tumor	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal gland neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
cortical adrenal neoplasia	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal gland neopl	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
tumour of adrenal cortex	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
[m]adrenal cortical tumors nos	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal cortex--tumors	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
tumour	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
adrenal cortex tumors	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
tumor of adrenal cortex	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
[m]adrenal cortical adenoma nos	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
adrenal cortex neoplasms	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
cancer-related syndrome	A broad classification for disorders in which the development of neoplasms typically occur in association with a characteristic set of signs or symptoms. These disorders may be inherited or acquired.
adrenal cortex neopl	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
neoplasia	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
adrenocortical tumor	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
benign tumor of adrenal gland	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal gland.
adrenal neoplasms benign	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal gland.
benign neoplasm of adrenal gland	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal gland.
benign tumour of adrenal cortex	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal cortex.
neoplasm of adrenal cortex	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
adrenal neoplasms	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
endocrine gland disease nos	impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning of the system of glands that release their secretions (hormones) directly into the circulatory system.
biological structure	tree section heading for anatomical, physiological, and related terms.
adrenal cortex sex cord-stromal tumor	An extremely rare sex cord-stromal tumor that arises from the adrenal cortex. The reported cases were solitary and unilateral.
adrenal cortex neoplasm	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
neoplasm adrenal	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal medulla	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
adrenocortical neoplasm	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
tumour cells	Cells of, or derived from, a tumor.
retroperitoneum and peritoneum	A term that refers to the peritoneum and the space behind it (retroperitoneum).
unspecified disorder of adrenal glands	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal disease glands	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
clomifeno	A triphenyl ethylene stilbene derivative which is an estrogen agonist or antagonist depending on the target tissue. Note that ENCLOMIPHENE and ZUCLOMIPHENE are the (E) and (Z) isomers of Clomiphene respectively.
protirelin	Tripeptídeo que estimula a liberação de TIREOTROPINA e PROLACTINA. É sintetizado pelos neurônios no núcleo paraventricular do HIPOTÁLAMO. Após, sendo liberado na circulação portal hipofisária, o TRH (foi denominado TRF) estimula a liberação de TSH e PRL a partir da ADENO-HIPÓFISE.
adrenal glands--diseases	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
follitrophin beta	A pharmacologic form of follicle-stimulating hormone used in the treatment of infertility.
adrenal diseases	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
disorder of adrenal gland	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
follicle stimulating hormone	A major gonadotropin secreted by the adenohypophysis (PITUITARY GLAND, ANTERIOR). Follicle-stimulating hormone stimulates GAMETOGENESIS and the supporting cells such as the ovarian GRANULOSA CELLS, the testicular SERTOLI CELLS, and LEYDIG CELLS. FSH consists of two noncovalently linked subunits, alpha and beta. Within a species, the alpha subunit is common in the three pituitary glycoprotein hormones (TSH, LH, and FSH), but the beta subunit is unique and confers its biological specificity.
adrenal gland disorder nos	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal hypercorticism	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
adrenal gland disorder	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
cushing's syndrome	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excess levels of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) or other GLUCOCORTICOIDS from endogenous or exogenous sources. It is characterized by upper body OBESITY; OSTEOPOROSIS; HYPERTENSION; DIABETES MELLITUS; HIRSUTISM; AMENORRHEA; and excess body fluid. Endogenous Cushing syndrome or spontaneous hypercortisolism is divided into two groups, those due to an excess of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN and those that are ACTH-independent.
adrenal disorders	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
endocrine disorder	impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning of the system of glands that release their secretions (hormones) directly into the circulatory system.
adrenal gland disorders	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
cushing syndrome	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excess levels of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) or other GLUCOCORTICOIDS from endogenous or exogenous sources. It is characterized by upper body OBESITY; OSTEOPOROSIS; HYPERTENSION; DIABETES MELLITUS; HIRSUTISM; AMENORRHEA; and excess body fluid. Endogenous Cushing syndrome or spontaneous hypercortisolism is divided into two groups, those due to an excess of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN and those that are ACTH-independent.
adrenal gland cancer	<p>Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions.</p> <p>A number of disorders can affect the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html">adrenal glands</a>, including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon.</p> <p>Types of tumors include</p> <ul> <li>Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html">Neuroblastoma</a>, a type of childhood cancer</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html">Pheochromocytoma</a> - a rare tumor that is usually benign</li> </ul> <p>Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. </p>
adrenal disease	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal gland hypofunction	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
disease of adrenal gland	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal neoplasm nos	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
apeced	Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome caused by homozygous, compound heterozygous, or heterozygous mutation(s) in the AIRE gene, encoding autoimmune regulator protein. Diagnosis requires at least 2 of the 3 major clinical features: chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, primary adrenal insufficiency, or primary hypoparathyroidism. Antibodies against type 1 interferons and interleukin 17 cytokines are almost always present. Heterozygous AIRE mutation(s) typically result in a narrower disease spectrum.
adrenal gland dis	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal hemorrhage	Hemorrhage and necrosis of the adrenal gland tissue. Bilateral and extensive hemorrhage may lead to acute adrenal insufficiency, shock, and death.
adrenal gland diseases	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adenoma adrenal cortex	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
adenocarcinoma; adrenal cortical	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
adrenal cyst	A cystic lesion located in the adrenal gland.
disorders of adrenal glands	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
endocrine problems	impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning of the system of glands that release their secretions (hormones) directly into the circulatory system.
diseases adrenal glands	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
retroperitoneal disease	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the retroperitoneum.
adrenal diseases gland	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
retroperitoneum	An area occupying the most posterior aspect of the ABDOMINAL CAVITY. It is bounded laterally by the borders of the quadratus lumborum muscles and extends from the DIAPHRAGM to the brim of the true PELVIS, where it continues as the pelvic extraperitoneal space.
adrenal disorder nos	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal hypofunction	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
adrenal gland tumors	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
wagenmann froboese syndrome	Similar to MEN2A, it is also caused by mutations of the MEN2 gene, also known as the RET proto-oncogene. Its clinical symptoms include medullary carcinoma (CARCINOMA, MEDULLARY) of THYROID GLAND and PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA of ADRENAL MEDULLA (50%). Unlike MEN2a, MEN2b does not involve PARATHYROID NEOPLASMS. It can be distinguished from MEN2A by its neural abnormalities such as mucosal NEUROMAS on EYELIDS; LIP; and TONGUE, and ganglioneuromatosis of GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT leading to MEGACOLON. It is an autosomal dominant inherited disease.
adrenal cortical adenoma - morphology	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
adrenal cortical carcinoma	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
calcification; adrenal	Calcification within the adrenal glands. [HPO:probinson]
adrenal cysts	A cystic lesion located in the adrenal gland.
injury of adrenal gland	Trauma to the adrenal gland.
disease of endocrine gland	impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning of the system of glands that release their secretions (hormones) directly into the circulatory system.
disorder of corticoadrenal overactivity	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
overproduction of acth	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
hypercorticism adrenal	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
adrenal gland hyperfunction	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
cushing's basophilism	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excess levels of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) or other GLUCOCORTICOIDS from endogenous or exogenous sources. It is characterized by upper body OBESITY; OSTEOPOROSIS; HYPERTENSION; DIABETES MELLITUS; HIRSUTISM; AMENORRHEA; and excess body fluid. Endogenous Cushing syndrome or spontaneous hypercortisolism is divided into two groups, those due to an excess of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN and those that are ACTH-independent.
adrenal cortex hyperfunction	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
iatrogenic cushing syndrome	Cushing syndrome as a result of increased glucocorticoids due to medical therapy.
cortisol overproduction	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
adrenals	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
cushings syndrome	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excess levels of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) or other GLUCOCORTICOIDS from endogenous or exogenous sources. It is characterized by upper body OBESITY; OSTEOPOROSIS; HYPERTENSION; DIABETES MELLITUS; HIRSUTISM; AMENORRHEA; and excess body fluid. Endogenous Cushing syndrome or spontaneous hypercortisolism is divided into two groups, those due to an excess of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN and those that are ACTH-independent.
cortisol excess	A condition caused by prolonged exposure to excess levels of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) or other GLUCOCORTICOIDS from endogenous or exogenous sources. It is characterized by upper body OBESITY; OSTEOPOROSIS; HYPERTENSION; DIABETES MELLITUS; HIRSUTISM; AMENORRHEA; and excess body fluid. Endogenous Cushing syndrome or spontaneous hypercortisolism is divided into two groups, those due to an excess of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN and those that are ACTH-independent.
overproduction of cortisol	abnormally increased secretion of adrenal hormones.
fludrocortisone acetate	The acetate salt of a synthetic fluorinated corticosteroid with antiinflammatory and antiallergic activities. As a glucocorticoid-receptor agonist, fludrocortisone binds to cytoplasmic receptors, translocates to the nucleus, and subsequently initiates the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes such as lipocortins to inhibit phospholipase A2 (PLA2). Inhibition of PLA2 activity prevents the release of arachidonic acid, a precursor of eicosanoids such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes; eicosanoids are important mediators in the pro-inflammatory response mechanism. As a mineralocorticoid-receptor agonist, this agent stimulates Na+ reabsorption and water retention and K+ and H+ secretion in the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney.
hypoadrenalism	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
x-linked congenital adrenal hypoplasia	A X-linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation(s) in the NR0B1 gene, resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein DAX1, which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
adrenal failure	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
adrenal calcification	Calcification within the adrenal glands. [HPO:probinson]
secondary adrenal insufficiency	A hormonal disorder that occurs when lack of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) secretion from the hypothalamus or adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion from the pituitary is responsible for hypofunction of the adrenal cortex.
adrenal; insufficiency	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
insufficiency adrenal cortex	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
central adrenal insufficiency	A hormonal disorder that occurs when lack of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) secretion from the hypothalamus or adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion from the pituitary is responsible for hypofunction of the adrenal cortex.
corticoadrenal insufficiency nos	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
adrenal gland insufficiency	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
insufficiency adrenal	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
adrenocortical crisis	A life threatening condition due to inadequate concentration of glucocorticoids characterized by loss of vascular tone leading to hypotension, tachycardia, and eventual cardiovascular collapse.
xy sex reversal adrenal failure	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis disorder with characteristics of severe early-onset salt-wasting adrenal insufficiency and ambiguous/female external genitalia (irrespective of chromosomal sex) due to mutations in the CYP11A1 gene. Milder cases may present delayed onset of adrenal gland dysfunction and genitalia phenotype may range from normal male to female in individuals with 46,XY karyotype. Imaging studies reveal hypoplastic/absent adrenal glands and biochemical findings include low serum cortisol, mineralocorticoids, androgens and sodium with elevated potassium levels. Caused by heterozygous, compound heterozygous or homozygous mutation in the CYP11A1 gene on chromosome 15q23-q24.
hypofunction adrenal	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
adrenal insufficiency nos	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
severe adrenal insufficiency	A life threatening condition due to inadequate concentration of glucocorticoids characterized by loss of vascular tone leading to hypotension, tachycardia, and eventual cardiovascular collapse.
set of adrenal glands	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
adrenal cortex hypofunction	An endocrine or hormonal disorder that occurs when the adrenal cortex does not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. It may be due to a disorder of the adrenal cortex (Addison's disease or primary adrenal insufficiency) or to inadequate secretion of ACTH by the pituitary gland (secondary adrenal insufficiency).
cortisol	The main glucocorticoid secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX. Its synthetic counterpart is used, either as an injection or topically, in the treatment of inflammation, allergy, collagen diseases, asthma, adrenocortical deficiency, shock, and some neoplastic conditions.
methazolamide	A carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is used as a diuretic and in the treatment of glaucoma.
metyrapone	An inhibitor of the enzyme STEROID 11-BETA-MONOOXYGENASE. It is used as a test of the feedback hypothalamic-pituitary mechanism in the diagnosis of CUSHING SYNDROME.
thyroideum siccatum	A dehydrated extract of thyroid glands from domesticated animals. After the removal of fat and connective tissue, the extract is dried or lyophilized to yield a yellowish to buff-colored amorphous powder containing 0.17-0.23% of iodine.
triamcinolone	A glucocorticoid given, as the free alcohol or in esterified form, orally, intramuscularly, by local injection, by inhalation, or applied topically in the management of various disorders in which corticosteroids are indicated. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p739)
drospirénone	A synthetic spironolactone analogue and progestin with progestational and anti-mineralocorticoid activity. Drospirenone binds to the progesterone receptor, the resulting complex becomes activated and binds to specific sites on DNA. This results in a suppression of LH activity and an inhibition of ovulation as well as an alteration in the cervical mucus and endometrium. This leads to an increased difficulty of sperm entry into the uterus and implantation. This drug is used in oral contraceptives.
hydrocortisone hydrogen succinate	The synthetic hemisuccinate salt form of hydrocortisone, a corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Hydrocortisone acetate initially binds to the cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptor; then the receptor-ligand complex is translocated to the nucleus where it initiates the transcription of genes encoding for anti-inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes.
cortisone acetate	The acetate ester of cortisone that is used mainly for replacement therapy in adrenocortical insufficiency and in the treatment of many allergic and inflammatory disorders.
hydrocortisone buteprate	The probutate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leads to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
adrenal hypofunctions	Stavy nedostatečné tvorby hormonů kůry nadledvin. Adrenální insuficience může být způsobena poškozením nadledvin, hypofýzy nebo hypotalamu.
hydrocortisone valerate	The valerate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leads to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
prednisolone sodium phosphate	The sodium phosphate salt form of prednisolone, a synthetic glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating properties. As a glucocorticoid receptor agonist, prednisolone sodium phosphate binds to specific intracellular glucocorticoid receptors, and causes the ligand- receptor complex to be translocated to the nucleus where it initiates the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes such as various cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes, both potent mediators of inflammation. This agent also decreases the number of circulating lymphocytes, induces cell differentiation, and stimulates apoptosis in sensitive tumor cell populations.
prednisolone sodium succinate	The sodium succinate salt form of prednisolone, a synthetic glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating properties. After cell surface receptor attachment and cell entry, prednisolone enters the nucleus where it binds to and activates specific nuclear receptors, resulting in an altered gene expression and inhibition of proinflammatory cytokine production. This agent also decreases the number of circulating lymphocytes, induces cell differentiation, and stimulates apoptosis in sensitive tumor cells populations. (NCI)
hydrocortisone butyrate	The butyrate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leading to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
sodium liothyronine	synthetic triiodothyronine (T3) hormone
methylprednisolone sodium succinate	The sodium succinate salt of a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory effects. Methylprednisolone sodium succinate is converted into active prednisolone in the body, which activates glucocorticoid receptor mediated gene expression. This includes inducing synthesis of anti-inflammatory protein IkappaB-alpha and inhibiting synthesis of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). As a result, proinflammatory cytokine production such as IL-1, IL-2 and IL-6 is down-regulated and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activation is inhibited. Therefore, an overall reduction in chronic inflammation and autoimmune reactions may be achieved.
hydrocortisone sod succinate	The sodium salt of hydrocortisone succinate with glucocorticoid property. Hydrocortisone sodium succinate is chemically similar to the endogenous hormone that stimulates anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive activities, in addition to exhibiting minor mineralocorticoid effects. This agent binds to intracellular glucocorticoid receptors and is translocated into the nucleus, where it initiates the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, such as various cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes, both potent mediators of inflammation. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1819" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1819" NCI Thesaurus)
infantile achalasia with alacrima	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the AAAS gene encoding the protein ALADIN, and characterized by primary adrenal insufficiency, esophageal dysmotility, and absence of tear production.
acth deficiency	A reduced ability to secrete adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), a hormone that stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete of glucocorticoids such as cortisol. [DDD:spark]
image syndrome	A condition caused by heterozygous mutation(s) in the CDKN1C gene, encoding cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1C, and characterized by intrauterine growth restriction, metaphyseal dysplasia, congenital adrenal hypoplasia, and genital anomalies.
acth resistance	A subtype of familial glucocorticoid deficiency caused by mutation(s) in the MC2R gene encoding the adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) receptor, also known as the melanocortin-2 receptor.
cancer of adrenal gland	<p>Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions.</p> <p>A number of disorders can affect the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html">adrenal glands</a>, including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon.</p> <p>Types of tumors include</p> <ul> <li>Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html">Neuroblastoma</a>, a type of childhood cancer</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html">Pheochromocytoma</a> - a rare tumor that is usually benign</li> </ul> <p>Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. </p>
malignant neoplasm of adrenal gland	<p>Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions.</p> <p>A number of disorders can affect the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html">adrenal glands</a>, including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon.</p> <p>Types of tumors include</p> <ul> <li>Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html">Neuroblastoma</a>, a type of childhood cancer</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html">Pheochromocytoma</a> - a rare tumor that is usually benign</li> </ul> <p>Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. </p>
adrenal glands tumors	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal tumour	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal gland tumours	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
tumor of adrenal medulla	any new and abnormal growth of the inner part of the adrenal gland; specifically a new growth of tissue of the inner part of the adrenal gland in which the growth is uncontrolled and progressive.
endocrine gland neoplasms	Tumors or cancer of the ENDOCRINE GLANDS.
adrenal gland neoplasms	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
abnormality of adrenal morphology	Any structural anomaly of the adrenal glands. [HPO:probinson]
adrenal tumor	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
tumor of adrenal gland	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
men iii	Similar to MEN2A, it is also caused by mutations of the MEN2 gene, also known as the RET proto-oncogene. Its clinical symptoms include medullary carcinoma (CARCINOMA, MEDULLARY) of THYROID GLAND and PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA of ADRENAL MEDULLA (50%). Unlike MEN2a, MEN2b does not involve PARATHYROID NEOPLASMS. It can be distinguished from MEN2A by its neural abnormalities such as mucosal NEUROMAS on EYELIDS; LIP; and TONGUE, and ganglioneuromatosis of GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT leading to MEGACOLON. It is an autosomal dominant inherited disease.
adrenal benign neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal gland.
adrenal medulla tumor	any new and abnormal growth of the inner part of the adrenal gland; specifically a new growth of tissue of the inner part of the adrenal gland in which the growth is uncontrolled and progressive.
adrenal glands tumor	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal cancer	<p>Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions.</p> <p>A number of disorders can affect the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html">adrenal glands</a>, including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon.</p> <p>Types of tumors include</p> <ul> <li>Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html">Neuroblastoma</a>, a type of childhood cancer</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html">Pheochromocytoma</a> - a rare tumor that is usually benign</li> </ul> <p>Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. </p>
adrenal tumors	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
neoplasia; endocrine	Tumors or cancer of the ENDOCRINE GLANDS.
pelvic tumors	Tumors or cancer of the pelvic region.
adrenal rest tumour	Neoplasm derived from displaced cells (rest cells) of the primordial ADRENAL GLANDS, generally in patients with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA. Adrenal rest tumors have been identified in TESTES; LIVER; and other tissues. They are dependent on ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN for growth and adrenal steroid secretion.
adrenal gland tumor	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
neopl adrenal gland	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
bilateral adrenal gland	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
other neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
neoplasm of adrenal gland	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
anatomical structures	tree section heading for anatomical, physiological, and related terms.
neopl adrenal cortex	Tumors or cancers of the ADRENAL CORTEX.
neoplasm of the adrenal gland	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal medulla neoplasm	any new and abnormal growth of the inner part of the adrenal gland; specifically a new growth of tissue of the inner part of the adrenal gland in which the growth is uncontrolled and progressive.
adrenal gland tumour	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal glands--tumors	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenal neoplasia	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
endocrine neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the ENDOCRINE GLANDS.
tumor of the adrenal gland	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
neoplasm of adrenal medulla	any new and abnormal growth of the inner part of the adrenal gland; specifically a new growth of tissue of the inner part of the adrenal gland in which the growth is uncontrolled and progressive.
malignant tumor of adrenal gland	<p>Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions.</p> <p>A number of disorders can affect the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html">adrenal glands</a>, including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon.</p> <p>Types of tumors include</p> <ul> <li>Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html">Neuroblastoma</a>, a type of childhood cancer</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html">Pheochromocytoma</a> - a rare tumor that is usually benign</li> </ul> <p>Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. </p>
neoplasm of retroperitoneum	New abnormal growth of tissue in the RETROPERITONEAL SPACE.
mouse adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A pheochromocytoma that occurs in the adrenal gland of a mouse.
right adrenal gland	The adrenal gland located on the right side of the body.
structure of left adrenal gland	The adrenal gland located on the left side of the body.
adrenal gland capsule	The thin fibrous tissue that surrounds the adrenal gland.
corticomedullary organ	Parenchymatous organ the stroma of which subdivides the parenchyma into cortex and medulla. Examples: thymus, spleen, ovary.
medulla of suprarenal gland	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
structure of right adrenal gland	The adrenal gland located on the right side of the body.
left adrenal gland	The adrenal gland located on the left side of the body.
capsule of adrenal gland	The thin fibrous tissue that surrounds the adrenal gland.
bilateral adrenal glands	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
set of organs	Anatomical set which has as its direct members organs of same type or of different types.
endocrine system	The system of glands that release their secretions (hormones) directly into the circulatory system. In addition to the ENDOCRINE GLANDS, included are the CHROMAFFIN SYSTEM and the NEUROSECRETORY SYSTEMS.
syndrome; ectopic acth	Symptom complex due to ACTH production by non-pituitary neoplasms.
adrenal glands disorders	Pathological processes of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
adrenalectomy	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
excision of adrenal gland operations	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
glandula suprarenalis	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
mineralocorticoid excess	A condition caused by the overproduction of ALDOSTERONE. It is characterized by sodium retention and potassium excretion with resultant HYPERTENSION and HYPOKALEMIA.
mucosal neuroma syndromes	Similar to MEN2A, it is also caused by mutations of the MEN2 gene, also known as the RET proto-oncogene. Its clinical symptoms include medullary carcinoma (CARCINOMA, MEDULLARY) of THYROID GLAND and PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA of ADRENAL MEDULLA (50%). Unlike MEN2a, MEN2b does not involve PARATHYROID NEOPLASMS. It can be distinguished from MEN2A by its neural abnormalities such as mucosal NEUROMAS on EYELIDS; LIP; and TONGUE, and ganglioneuromatosis of GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT leading to MEGACOLON. It is an autosomal dominant inherited disease.
hemorrhage; adrenal	Hemorrhage and necrosis of the adrenal gland tissue. Bilateral and extensive hemorrhage may lead to acute adrenal insufficiency, shock, and death.
tuberculosis of adrenal gland	Tuberculosis of the adrenal gland.
adenoma of adrenal cortex	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
congenital small adrenal gland	A rare genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It usually presents in infancy with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. If it is not recognized and treated promptly, it may be lethal.
liddle syndrome	Familial pseudoaldosteronism characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of hypertension with HYPOKALEMIA; ALKALOSIS; RENIN and ALDOSTERONE level decreases. It is caused by mutations in EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS beta and gamma subunits. Different mutations in the same EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS subunits can cause PSEUDOHYPOALDOSTERONISM, TYPE I, AUTOSOMAL DOMINANT.
adrenal aplasia	Absent development of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
ectopic adrenal gland	Abnormal anatomical location of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
iatrogenic cushing's syndrome	Cushing syndrome as a result of increased glucocorticoids due to medical therapy.
adrenogenital syndrome	Abnormální sexuální diferenciace nebo vrozené poruchy pohlavního vývoje způsobené nadprodukcí pohlavních nebo adrenálních steroidních hormonů (např. u kongenitální adrenální hyperplazie nebo adrenokortikálních nádorů). Poruchy biosyntézy steroidů způsobují virilismus u žen, feminizaci u mužů nebo předčasný sexuální vývoj u dětí.
adrenal hypoplasia congenita	A rare genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It usually presents in infancy with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. If it is not recognized and treated promptly, it may be lethal.
x linked adrenal hypoplasia	A X-linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation(s) in the NR0B1 gene, resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein DAX1, which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
ame - apparent mineralocorticoid excess	Dědičné onemocnění charakterizované hypertenzí v dětství, hypokalemickou alkalózou a nízkou hladinou reninu a aldosteronu. Je způsobené poruchou aktivity enzymu 11-beta-hydroxysteroiddehydrogenázy typu 2, kdy nedochází k dostatečné přeměně kortizolu na kortizon. To vede ke stimulaci receptorů pro mineralokortikoidy a tedy ke stavu zdánlivého nadbytku mineralokortikoidů.
adrenal masses	An abnormal growth in the adrenal gland.
cyst; adrenal	A cystic lesion located in the adrenal gland.
injury of suprarenal gland	Trauma to the adrenal gland.
gl.suprarenalis; injury	Trauma to the adrenal gland.
neuroblastoma of adrenal gland	A neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland.
adrenal gland cancers	<p>Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions.</p> <p>A number of disorders can affect the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html">adrenal glands</a>, including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon.</p> <p>Types of tumors include</p> <ul> <li>Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html">Neuroblastoma</a>, a type of childhood cancer</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html">Pheochromocytoma</a> - a rare tumor that is usually benign</li> </ul> <p>Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. </p>
adrenal structure	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
enlarged adrenal glands	condition of diffuse enlargement of the adrenal glands; it is also a congenital disorder resulting from a defect in the synthesis of corticosteroids; in most cases the defect is in the enzyme 21-hydroxylase, which results in aldosterone and cortisol deficiency and an overproduction of androgen; common features include early masculinization of males and virilization of females.
cbg deficiency	A rare genetic adrenal disease with characteristics of diminished corticosteroid-binding capacity associated with normal or low plasma corticosteroid-binding globulin concentration and reduced total plasma cortisol levels. Patients typically present chronic pain, fatigue and hypo/hypertension. Can be caused by heterozygous or homozygous mutation in the SERPINA6 gene on chromosome 14q32.
pseudoleprechaunism syndrome patterson type	A rare genetic adrenal disorder with characteristics of congenital bronzed hyperpigmentation, cutis laxa of the hands and feet, body disproportion (comprising large hands, feet, nose and ears), hirsutism and severe intellectual disability. Patients additionally present hyperadrenocorticism, cushingoid features, premature adrenarche and diabetes mellitus, as well as skeletal deformities (not present at birth and which progress with age). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
primary unilateral adrenal hyperplasia	A surgically correctable form of primary hyperaldosteronism characterised by renin suppression, unilateral aldosterone hypersecretion, and moderate to severe hypertension secondary to hyperplasia of the adrenal gland. May be associated with hypokalaemia, which, when present, may be symptomatic with muscular weakness, cramps, paresthesia or palpitations with or without atrial fibrillation.The aetiology is not known. Unilateral adrenalectomy abolishes aldosterone hypersecretion and hypokalaemia in most patients.
left suprarenal gland	The adrenal gland located on the left side of the body.
excision of adrenal gland	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
adrenal gland: excision	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
aldosteronism	A condition caused by the overproduction of ALDOSTERONE. It is characterized by sodium retention and potassium excretion with resultant HYPERTENSION and HYPOKALEMIA.
multiple endocrine neoplasia type iib	Similar to MEN2A, it is also caused by mutations of the MEN2 gene, also known as the RET proto-oncogene. Its clinical symptoms include medullary carcinoma (CARCINOMA, MEDULLARY) of THYROID GLAND and PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA of ADRENAL MEDULLA (50%). Unlike MEN2a, MEN2b does not involve PARATHYROID NEOPLASMS. It can be distinguished from MEN2A by its neural abnormalities such as mucosal NEUROMAS on EYELIDS; LIP; and TONGUE, and ganglioneuromatosis of GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT leading to MEGACOLON. It is an autosomal dominant inherited disease.
hemorrhage adrenal	Hemorrhage and necrosis of the adrenal gland tissue. Bilateral and extensive hemorrhage may lead to acute adrenal insufficiency, shock, and death.
tuberculosis of adrenal glands	Tuberculosis of the adrenal gland.
liddle's syndrome	Familial pseudoaldosteronism characterized by autosomal dominant inheritance of hypertension with HYPOKALEMIA; ALKALOSIS; RENIN and ALDOSTERONE level decreases. It is caused by mutations in EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS beta and gamma subunits. Different mutations in the same EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS subunits can cause PSEUDOHYPOALDOSTERONISM, TYPE I, AUTOSOMAL DOMINANT.
aplasia of adrenal gland	Absent development of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
congenital absence of adrenal gland	Absent development of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
iatrogenic syndrome of excess cortisol	Cushing syndrome as a result of increased glucocorticoids due to medical therapy.
congenital adrenal cortical hyperplasia	Abnormální sexuální diferenciace nebo vrozené poruchy pohlavního vývoje způsobené nadprodukcí pohlavních nebo adrenálních steroidních hormonů (např. u kongenitální adrenální hyperplazie nebo adrenokortikálních nádorů). Poruchy biosyntézy steroidů způsobují virilismus u žen, feminizaci u mužů nebo předčasný sexuální vývoj u dětí.
deficiency; acth	A reduced ability to secrete adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), a hormone that stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete of glucocorticoids such as cortisol. [DDD:spark]
mass of adrenal gland	An abnormal growth in the adrenal gland.
cyst of adrenal gland	A cystic lesion located in the adrenal gland.
adrenal gland injury	Trauma to the adrenal gland.
malignant neoplasm neuroblastoma adrenal	A neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland.
adrenal; hyperplasia	condition of diffuse enlargement of the adrenal glands; it is also a congenital disorder resulting from a defect in the synthesis of corticosteroids; in most cases the defect is in the enzyme 21-hydroxylase, which results in aldosterone and cortisol deficiency and an overproduction of androgen; common features include early masculinization of males and virilization of females.
adrenal congenital hyperplasia	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
carotid body tumor	Benign paraganglioma at the bifurcation of the COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. It can encroach on the parapharyngeal space and produce dysphagia, pain, and cranial nerve palsies.
neoplasm of the glomus jugulare	A paraganglioma involving the glomus jugulare, a microscopic collection of chemoreceptor tissue in the adventitia of the bulb of the jugular vein. It may cause paralysis of the vocal cords, attacks of dizziness, blackouts, and nystagmus. It is not resectable but radiation therapy is effective. It regresses slowly, but permanent control is regularly achieved. (From Dorland, 27th ed; Stedman, 25th ed; DeVita Jr et al., Cancer: Principles & Practice of Oncology, 3d ed, pp1603-4)
adrenal tuberculosis	Tuberculosis of the adrenal gland.
benign neoplasm of suprarenal gland	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal gland.
adrenocortical adenomas	Tumor benigno de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Se caracteriza por una lesión nodular bien definida, generalmente menor a 2.5 cm. La mayoria de los adenomas de la corteza suprarrenal son no funcionales. Los funcionales son amarillos y contienen LÍPIDOS. Dependiendo del tipo de célula o zona cortical implicada, pueden producir ALDOSTERONA, HIDROCORTISONA, DESHIDROEPIANDROSTERONA y/o ANDROSTENEDIONA.
adrenocortical carcinomas	Neoplasia maligna de la CORTEZA SUPRARRENAL. Estos carcinomas son masas anaplásicas (ANAPLASIA) no encapsuladas, en ocasiones de más de 20 cm o 200 g. Es más probable que sean funcionales que no funcionales y producen CORTICOSTEROIDES, que pueden dar lugar a hipercortisolismo (SÍNDROME DE CUSHING), HIPERALDOSTERONISMO y/o VIRILISMO.
anaplastic adrenocortical carcinoma	An adrenal cortex carcinoma characterized by the presence of necrotic changes, hemorrhage, nuclear atypia, and mitotic activity.
anaplastic adrenal cortex cancer	An adrenal cortex carcinoma characterized by the presence of necrotic changes, hemorrhage, nuclear atypia, and mitotic activity.
compact cell adrenal cortical adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex composed of neoplastic compact cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm.
heavily pigmented adrenal cortical adenoma	A usually functioning adenoma of the adrenal cortex. Grossly, it has a dark brown appearance and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic cells containing abundant intracytoplasmic lipofuscin. It may be associated with Cushing syndrome.
adrenal cortex mixed cell adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex composed of a mixed neoplastic cellular population, including varying numbers of neoplastic clear and compact cells.
paraganglioma of the aortic body	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma that arises from paraganglia adjacent to the base of the heart and great vessels.
nccah	A milder form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia characterized by decreased activity of an enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway, typically presenting later in life, that does not require life-long cortisol replacement.
lipoid congenital adrenal hyperplasia	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
malignant tumor of adrenal cortex	A primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the adrenal cortex.
malignant glomus jugulare neoplasm	A jugulotympanic paraganglioma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites.
radical nephrectomy	Surgery to remove an entire kidney, nearby adrenal gland and lymph nodes, and other surrounding tissue.
neuroblastoma of the adrenal gland	A neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland.
benign neoplasm of adrenal medulla	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal medulla.
malign neopl adrenal	<p>Your adrenal, or suprarenal, glands are located on the top of each kidney. These glands produce hormones that you can't live without, including sex hormones and cortisol, which helps you respond to stress and has many other functions.</p> <p>A number of disorders can affect the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/adrenalglanddisorders.html">adrenal glands</a>, including tumors. Tumors can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Most adrenal gland tumors are benign. They usually do not cause symptoms and may not require treatment. Malignant adrenal gland cancers are uncommon.</p> <p>Types of tumors include</p> <ul> <li>Adrenocortical carcinoma - cancer in the outer part of the gland</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/neuroblastoma.html">Neuroblastoma</a>, a type of childhood cancer</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pheochromocytoma.html">Pheochromocytoma</a> - a rare tumor that is usually benign</li> </ul> <p>Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have. Treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. </p>
metastases to adrenals	A malignant tumor that has spread to the adrenal gland from an adjacent or distant anatomic site. The majority of cases are metastatic carcinomas, and less frequently lymphomas.
metastatic tumor to the adrenals	A malignant tumor that has spread to the adrenal gland from an adjacent or distant anatomic site. The majority of cases are metastatic carcinomas, and less frequently lymphomas.
prostinogen	Kallikrein-15 (256 aa, ~28 kDa) is encoded by the human KLK15 gene. This protein is involved in proteolysis.
extra-adrenal chromaffin neoplasm	A benign or malignant sympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia outside the adrenal gland. Clinical symptoms are related to secretion of catecholamines. Representative examples include the superior and inferior paraaortic and bladder paragangliomas.
malignant ganglioneuroblastoma of adrenal gland	A ganglioneuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland.
paraganglioma of the bladder	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal sympathetic paraganglioma arising from the urinary bladder. Clinical signs include hypertension and hematuria.
paraganglioma of central nervous system	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal paraganglioma arising from the central nervous system.
congenital adrenal gland disorder	A genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It includes adrenal gland hyperplasia and adrenal gland hypoplasia.
paraganglioma of head and neck	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal paraganglioma arising from paraganglia in the head and neck. Representative examples include the carotid body and jugulotympanic paragangliomas.
paraganglioma of intra-abdominal area	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal paraganglioma arising from the abdominal cavity.
laryngeal paraganglioma	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal parasympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia adjacent to the larynx. Patients may present with hoarseness and dysphagia.
malignant bladder paraganglioma	An extra-adrenal sympathetic paraganglioma of the bladder that metastasizes to other anatomic sites.
malignant heart paraganglioma	A paraganglioma of the heart that metastasizes to regional or distant anatomic sites.
orbit paraganglioma	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal paraganglioma arising from the orbit. Patients may present with visual disturbances or proptosis.
urinary system paraganglioma	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal paraganglioma that arises from the urinary system. The representative example is bladder paraganglioma.
benign neoplasm of adrenal cortex	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal cortex.
benign adrenal cortical tumour	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal cortex.
adrenal gland tissue	The tissue that forms the adrenal gland. It consists of the outer adrenal cortex and the inner adrenal medulla.
adrenal gland adenomatoid tumor	A benign adrenal cortex neoplasm deriving from mesothelial cells.
adrenal gland angiosarcoma	A rare malignant soft tissue neoplasm arising from the vascular endothelium of the adrenal gland.
aldosterone-producing adrenal cortex adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces aldosterone. It may be associated with Conn syndrome. Clinical presentation includes hypertension, hypokalemia, and muscle weakness.
androgen producing adrenal cortex adenoma	A rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces androgens. Female patients usually have symptoms related to virilism.
androgen-producing adrenal cortex adenoma	A rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces androgens. Female patients usually have symptoms related to virilism.
cortisol producing adrenal cortex adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces cortisol. It may be associated with Cushing syndrome. Clinical presentation includes weight gain, round face, easy bruising, muscle weakness, emotional changes, hirsutism, and hypertension.
cortisol-producing adrenal cortex adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces cortisol. It may be associated with Cushing syndrome. Clinical presentation includes weight gain, round face, easy bruising, muscle weakness, emotional changes, hirsutism, and hypertension.
estrogen-producing adrenal cortex adenoma	A rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces estrogens. Male patients may develop gynecomastia and impotence.
metastatic adrenal gland chromaffinoma	A pheochromocytoma that has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
adrenal cortical incidentaloma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex characterized by the absence of a hormonal syndrome or symptoms suggestive of adrenal disease.
recurrent adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	The reemergence of a pheochromocytoma following surgical removal.
relapsed adrenal gland chromaffin neoplasm	The reemergence of a pheochromocytoma following surgical removal.
regional adrenal gland chromaffinoma	A pheochromocytoma that has not spread to other regions.
sex hormone-producing adrenal cortex adenoma	A rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces androgens or estrogens.
superior and inferior paraaortic paraganglioma	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal sympathetic paraganglioma arising from paraganglia located along the aorta, including suprarenal, infrarenal, and renal hilar sites. In functional tumors, the hypersecretion of catecholamines results in hypertension.
thyroid gland paraganglioma	A rare, circumscribed or encapsulated neuroendocrine tumor arising from the thyroid gland. Microscopically, it is characterized by the presence of tumor cells arranged in a nesting (Zellballen) growth pattern. The reported cases have followed a benign clinical course.
cerebellar paraganglioma	A benign or malignant extra-adrenal paraganglioma arising from the cerebellum.
autoimmune primary adrenal insufficiency	Diminished production of adrenocortical hormones due to autoimmune destruction of the adrenal glands.
autoimmune adrenalitis	Diminished production of adrenocortical hormones due to autoimmune destruction of the adrenal glands.
laparoscopic radical nephrectomy	A radical nephrectomy procedure performed with the aid of a laparoscope.
benign chemodectoma	A carotid body paraganglioma that is confined to the site of origin, without metastatic potential.
malignant adrenal gland composite pheochromocytoma	A malignant neoplasm of the adrenal gland medulla, composed of medullary and neuroectodermal components.
small intestinal gangliocytic paraganglioma	An extra-adrenal paraganglioma that arises from the small intestine. Unlike the conventional paragangliomas, this tumor has a peculiar morphologic appearance; it consists of a mixture of epithelial cells, spindle cells, and ganglion cells.
childhood adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A rare pheochromocytoma of the adrenal gland that occurs during childhood.
adrenal gland hyperplasia ii	Decreased activity of the enzyme 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, associated with mutation(s) in the HSD3B2 gene. The lack of activity of this enzyme produces a type of congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
multinodular adrenal hyperplasia	A subtype of adrenal hyperplasia, based on histopathologic features, in which there are multiple nodules.
classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia	A severe form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia characterized by very low or absent activity of an enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway typically presenting early in life, and requiring life-long cortisol replacement.
miniature adult form of ahc	An autosomal recessive or sporadic form of adrenal hypoplasia congenita frequently associated with central nervous system anomalies including anencephaly and pituitary defects. Histologically the adrenal gland is distinguished by the absence of fetal adrenal cortex and the presence of a small amount of normal, permanent adult adrenal cortex.
primary pigmented nodular adrenal dysplasia	A subtype of micronodular adrenal hyperplasia, characterized by multiple pigmented nodules, which may occur in isolation or as part of the Carney complex.
ppnad	A subtype of micronodular adrenal hyperplasia, characterized by multiple pigmented nodules, which may occur in isolation or as part of the Carney complex.
adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	usually benign, well-encapsulated, lobular, vascular tumor of chromaffin tissue of the adrenal medulla or sympathetic paraganglia; the cardinal symptom, reflecting the increased secretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine, is hypertension, which may be persistent or intermittent.
stage ii adrenal cortex carcinoma	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor measuring more than 5 cm in greatest dimension, with no extra-adrenal invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage ii adrenocortical cancer	Cancer of the adrenal gland that is larger than 5 centimeters (about 2 inches) and is found in the adrenal gland only.
stage i adrenal cortex carcinoma	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor 5 cm or less in greatest dimension, no extra-adrenal invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
pituitary gland paraganglioma	An extremely rare paraganglioma arising from chief cells of the dispersed paraganglia of the sellar region. (WHO 2017)
adrenal gland lymphoma	A rare lymphoma that arises from the adrenal gland.
adrenal gland sarcoma	A rare sarcoma that arises from the adrenal gland.
renal paraganglioma	An extremely rare paraganglioma that arises from the renal hilum. Paragangliomas that arise from the perihilar sympathetic ganglia are not included in this category.
advanced adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	An adrenal gland pheochromocytoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
prostate paraganglioma	A paraganglioma that affects the prostate gland.
hand assisted laparoscopic radical nephrectomy	A radical nephrectomy procedure performed using hand assisted laparoscopy.
open radical nephrectomy	A radical nephrectomy procedure performed using a long incision for visualization and the insertion of instruments.
metastatic site name	The anatomical location where metastasis was detected at the time the subject has entered the trial.
hydrocortisone	The main glucocorticoid secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX. Its synthetic counterpart is used, either as an injection or topically, in the treatment of inflammation, allergy, collagen diseases, asthma, adrenocortical deficiency, shock, and some neoplastic conditions.
succinate hydrocortisone	The synthetic hemisuccinate salt form of hydrocortisone, a corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Hydrocortisone acetate initially binds to the cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptor; then the receptor-ligand complex is translocated to the nucleus where it initiates the transcription of genes encoding for anti-inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes.
cah - congenital adrenal hyperplasia	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
hydrocortisone probutate	The probutate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leads to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
hyperplasia adrenal congenital	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
wilkins disease	Abnormální sexuální diferenciace nebo vrozené poruchy pohlavního vývoje způsobené nadprodukcí pohlavních nebo adrenálních steroidních hormonů (např. u kongenitální adrenální hyperplazie nebo adrenokortikálních nádorů). Poruchy biosyntézy steroidů způsobují virilismus u žen, feminizaci u mužů nebo předčasný sexuální vývoj u dětí.
congenital adrenal hyperplasias	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
hyperplasia congenital adrenal	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
congenital; adrenogenital syndrome	Abnormální sexuální diferenciace nebo vrozené poruchy pohlavního vývoje způsobené nadprodukcí pohlavních nebo adrenálních steroidních hormonů (např. u kongenitální adrenální hyperplazie nebo adrenokortikálních nádorů). Poruchy biosyntézy steroidů způsobují virilismus u žen, feminizaci u mužů nebo předčasný sexuální vývoj u dětí.
adrenal hyperplasia congen	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
locah	A milder form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia characterized by decreased activity of an enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway, typically presenting later in life, that does not require life-long cortisol replacement.
adrenogenital disorder	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
cellular proliferation	An increase in the number of cells in a tissue or organ without tumor formation. It differs from HYPERTROPHY, which is an increase in bulk without an increase in the number of cells.
adrenal virilism	Abnormální sexuální diferenciace nebo vrozené poruchy pohlavního vývoje způsobené nadprodukcí pohlavních nebo adrenálních steroidních hormonů (např. u kongenitální adrenální hyperplazie nebo adrenokortikálních nádorů). Poruchy biosyntézy steroidů způsobují virilismus u žen, feminizaci u mužů nebo předčasný sexuální vývoj u dětí.
apert-gallais syndrome	Abnormální sexuální diferenciace nebo vrozené poruchy pohlavního vývoje způsobené nadprodukcí pohlavních nebo adrenálních steroidních hormonů (např. u kongenitální adrenální hyperplazie nebo adrenokortikálních nádorů). Poruchy biosyntézy steroidů způsobují virilismus u žen, feminizaci u mužů nebo předčasný sexuální vývoj u dětí.
simple virilizing adrenal hyperplasia	Less than necessary amount of the enzyme steroid 21-monooxygenase; which is necessary to synthesize cortisol.
hyperplasia congen adrenal	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
congenital adrenogenital syndrome	A group of inherited disorders of the ADRENAL GLANDS, caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol (HYDROCORTISONE) and/or ALDOSTERONE leading to accumulation of precursors for ANDROGENS. Depending on the hormone imbalance, congenital adrenal hyperplasia can be classified as salt-wasting, hypertensive, virilizing, or feminizing. Defects in STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 11-BETA-HYDROXYLASE; STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE; 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES); TESTOSTERONE 5-ALPHA-REDUCTASE; or steroidogenic acute regulatory protein; among others, underlie these disorders.
adrenal rest tumor	Neoplasm derived from displaced cells (rest cells) of the primordial ADRENAL GLANDS, generally in patients with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA. Adrenal rest tumors have been identified in TESTES; LIVER; and other tissues. They are dependent on ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN for growth and adrenal steroid secretion.
loose areolar connective tissue	Loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs. Examples: submucosal connective tissue, tunica adventitia of artery, papillary dermis, superficial fascia of dorsum of hand.
medullary	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
adrenal medullas	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
medulla glandulae suprarenalis	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
medulla	Organ component, each instance of which is an inneer layer or region of some organ.
chromaffin tumour	usually benign, well-encapsulated, lobular, vascular tumor of chromaffin tissue of the adrenal medulla or sympathetic paraganglia; the cardinal symptom, reflecting the increased secretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine, is hypertension, which may be persistent or intermittent.
malignant tumour of adrenal medulla	A primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm affecting the adrenal medulla.
medulla of adrenal gland	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
anaplastic adrenal cortex carcinoma	An adrenal cortex carcinoma characterized by the presence of necrotic changes, hemorrhage, nuclear atypia, and mitotic activity.
compact cell adrenal cortex adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex composed of neoplastic compact cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm.
pigmented adenoma	A usually functioning adenoma of the adrenal cortex. Grossly, it has a dark brown appearance and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic cells containing abundant intracytoplasmic lipofuscin. It may be associated with Cushing syndrome.
glomerulosa cell adrenal cortical adenoma	An adenoma of the adrenal cortex composed of neoplastic cells with cytologic features of glomerulosa cells.
benign adrenal medulla tumor	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the adrenal medulla.
adrenal medulla structure	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
androgen producing adrenal cortical adenoma	A rare adenoma of the adrenal cortex that produces androgens. Female patients usually have symptoms related to virilism.
metastatic adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A pheochromocytoma that has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
suprarenal medulla	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
well differentiated adrenal cortex cancer	An adrenal cortex carcinoma characterized by the presence of morphologic and cytologic features reminiscent of the normal adrenal cortex and absence of sarcomatous or anaplastic features.
adm - adrenal medulla	The inner portion of the adrenal gland. Derived from ECTODERM, adrenal medulla consists mainly of CHROMAFFIN CELLS that produces and stores a number of NEUROTRANSMITTERS, mainly adrenaline (EPINEPHRINE) and NOREPINEPHRINE. The activity of the adrenal medulla is regulated by the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
stage ii adrenocortical carcinoma	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor measuring more than 5 cm in greatest dimension, with no extra-adrenal invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
benign reproductive system neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the male or female reproductive system. Representative examples include benign prostate phyllodes tumor, benign Sertoli cell tumor, uterine corpus leiomyoma, and benign ovarian serous tumor.
adrenal benign rest tumor	Neoplasm derived from displaced cells (rest cells) of the primordial ADRENAL GLANDS, generally in patients with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA. Adrenal rest tumors have been identified in TESTES; LIVER; and other tissues. They are dependent on ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN for growth and adrenal steroid secretion.
urogenital system	All the organs involved in reproduction and the formation and release of URINE. It includes the kidneys, ureters, BLADDER; URETHRA, and the organs of reproduction - ovaries, UTERUS; FALLOPIAN TUBES; VAGINA; and CLITORIS in women and the testes; SEMINAL VESICLES; PROSTATE; seminal ducts; and PENIS in men.
adrenal rest tumors	Neoplasm derived from displaced cells (rest cells) of the primordial ADRENAL GLANDS, generally in patients with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA. Adrenal rest tumors have been identified in TESTES; LIVER; and other tissues. They are dependent on ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN for growth and adrenal steroid secretion.
cancer cell	Cells of, or derived from, a malignant tumor.
[m]unspecified tumor cell nos	Cells of, or derived from, a tumor.
embryonic tissue	Tissue that is formed during the embryonic stage of life of an organism.
adrenal rest neoplasm	Neoplasm derived from displaced cells (rest cells) of the primordial ADRENAL GLANDS, generally in patients with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA. Adrenal rest tumors have been identified in TESTES; LIVER; and other tissues. They are dependent on ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN for growth and adrenal steroid secretion.
tumor adrenal gland	Tumors or cancer of the ADRENAL GLANDS.
sex cord-stromal tumour	Neoplasia derivada de células estromais gonadais ou do cordão sexual primitivo das GÔNADAS embrionárias. São classificadas por sua suposta histogênese e diferenciação. A partir do cordão sexual, se forma o TUMOR DE CÉLULAS DE SERTOLI e o TUMOR DE CÉLULAS DA GRANULOSA; do estroma gonadal, o TUMOR DE CÉLULAS DE LEYDIG e TECOMA. Estes tumores podem ser identificados tanto no OVÁRIO como nos TESTÍCULOS.
benign neopl	<p>Tumors are abnormal growths in your body. They can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer. Malignant ones are. Benign tumors grow only in one place. They cannot spread or invade other parts of your body. Even so, they can be dangerous if they press on vital organs, such as your brain.</p> <p>Tumors are made up of extra cells. Normally, cells grow and divide to form new cells as your body needs them. When cells grow old, they die, and new cells take their place. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when your body does not need them, and old cells do not die when they should. These extra cells can divide without stopping and may form tumor.</p> <p>Treatment often involves surgery. Benign tumors usually don't grow back.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Cancer Institute</p>
[m]specialized gonadal neoplasm nos	Neoplasia derivada de células estromais gonadais ou do cordão sexual primitivo das GÔNADAS embrionárias. São classificadas por sua suposta histogênese e diferenciação. A partir do cordão sexual, se forma o TUMOR DE CÉLULAS DE SERTOLI e o TUMOR DE CÉLULAS DA GRANULOSA; do estroma gonadal, o TUMOR DE CÉLULAS DE LEYDIG e TECOMA. Estes tumores podem ser identificados tanto no OVÁRIO como nos TESTÍCULOS.
adrenalectomy nos	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
procedure endocrine surg	procedures performed on the endocrine system or any portion of it, used in the treatment of disease, injuries, or deformities; heading term for surgery involving endocrine glands.
excision of adrenal gland nos	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
abscission	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
excision	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
gland	An organ that produces and secretes hormones (e.g. endocrine gland), saliva or sweat (e.g. exocrine gland).
adrenalectomies	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
excision procedure	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
surgical resection	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
resection	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
ablative endocrine surgery	Destructive or removal of any part of the endocrine system by surgical means, including the use of lasers or electrical current.
endocrine systems	The system of glands that release their secretions (hormones) directly into the circulatory system. In addition to the ENDOCRINE GLANDS, included are the CHROMAFFIN SYSTEM and the NEUROSECRETORY SYSTEMS.
adrenal gland excision	Excision of one or both adrenal glands. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
ctrp intervention terminology	A set of terminology that includes the interventions and therapies used in NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
epinephrine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of the naturally occurring sympathomimetic amine with vasoconstricting, intraocular pressure-reducing, and bronchodilating activities. By stimulating vascular alpha-adrenergic receptors, epinephrine causes vasoconstriction, thereby increasing vascular resistance and blood pressure. When administered in the conjunctiva, this agent binds to alpha-adrenergic receptors in the iris sphincter muscle, resulting in vasoconstriction, a decrease in the production of aqueous humor, and a lowering of intraocular pressure. Through its beta1 receptor-stimulating actions, epinephrine increases the force and rate of myocardial contraction and relaxes bronchial smooth muscle, resulting in bronchodilation.
epinephrine preparation	The active sympathomimetic hormone from the ADRENAL MEDULLA. It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic VASOCONSTRICTION and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the HEART, and dilates BRONCHI and cerebral vessels. It is used in ASTHMA and CARDIAC FAILURE and to delay absorption of local ANESTHETICS.
adrenaline	The active sympathomimetic hormone from the ADRENAL MEDULLA. It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic VASOCONSTRICTION and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the HEART, and dilates BRONCHI and cerebral vessels. It is used in ASTHMA and CARDIAC FAILURE and to delay absorption of local ANESTHETICS.
airway obstructions	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
abnormal heart rhythms	any variation from the normal rhythm or rate of the heart beat.
adrenaline hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of the naturally occurring sympathomimetic amine with vasoconstricting, intraocular pressure-reducing, and bronchodilating activities. By stimulating vascular alpha-adrenergic receptors, epinephrine causes vasoconstriction, thereby increasing vascular resistance and blood pressure. When administered in the conjunctiva, this agent binds to alpha-adrenergic receptors in the iris sphincter muscle, resulting in vasoconstriction, a decrease in the production of aqueous humor, and a lowering of intraocular pressure. Through its beta1 receptor-stimulating actions, epinephrine increases the force and rate of myocardial contraction and relaxes bronchial smooth muscle, resulting in bronchodilation.
bronchospasms	Spasmodic contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi.
catecholamines	A general class of ortho-dihydroxyphenylalkylamines derived from TYROSINE.
drug hypersensitivity	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
epinephrine hcl	The hydrochloride salt of the naturally occurring sympathomimetic amine with vasoconstricting, intraocular pressure-reducing, and bronchodilating activities. By stimulating vascular alpha-adrenergic receptors, epinephrine causes vasoconstriction, thereby increasing vascular resistance and blood pressure. When administered in the conjunctiva, this agent binds to alpha-adrenergic receptors in the iris sphincter muscle, resulting in vasoconstriction, a decrease in the production of aqueous humor, and a lowering of intraocular pressure. Through its beta1 receptor-stimulating actions, epinephrine increases the force and rate of myocardial contraction and relaxes bronchial smooth muscle, resulting in bronchodilation.
narrow angle glaucoma	A form of glaucoma in which the intraocular pressure increases because the angle of the anterior chamber is blocked and the aqueous humor cannot drain from the anterior chamber.
[d]septic shock	Sepsis associated with HYPOTENSION or hypoperfusion despite adequate fluid resuscitation. Perfusion abnormalities may include but are not limited to LACTIC ACIDOSIS; OLIGURIA; or acute alteration in mental status.
ventricular fibrillation	A potentially lethal cardiac arrhythmia that is characterized by uncoordinated extremely rapid firing of electrical impulses (400-600/min) in HEART VENTRICLES. Such asynchronous ventricular quivering or fibrillation prevents any effective cardiac output and results in unconsciousness (SYNCOPE). It is one of the major electrocardiographic patterns seen with CARDIAC ARREST.
slow heart beat	Cardiac arrhythmias that are characterized by excessively slow HEART RATE, usually below 50 beats per minute in human adults. They can be classified broadly into SINOATRIAL NODE dysfunction and ATRIOVENTRICULAR BLOCK.
bronchodilators	Agents that cause an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes.
hcl epinephrine	The hydrochloride salt of the naturally occurring sympathomimetic amine with vasoconstricting, intraocular pressure-reducing, and bronchodilating activities. By stimulating vascular alpha-adrenergic receptors, epinephrine causes vasoconstriction, thereby increasing vascular resistance and blood pressure. When administered in the conjunctiva, this agent binds to alpha-adrenergic receptors in the iris sphincter muscle, resulting in vasoconstriction, a decrease in the production of aqueous humor, and a lowering of intraocular pressure. Through its beta1 receptor-stimulating actions, epinephrine increases the force and rate of myocardial contraction and relaxes bronchial smooth muscle, resulting in bronchodilation.
epinephrine	The active sympathomimetic hormone from the ADRENAL MEDULLA. It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic VASOCONSTRICTION and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the HEART, and dilates BRONCHI and cerebral vessels. It is used in ASTHMA and CARDIAC FAILURE and to delay absorption of local ANESTHETICS.
hormone product	Chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various ENDOCRINE GLANDS and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects.
adrenergic agent	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
therapeutic epinephrine	The active sympathomimetic hormone from the ADRENAL MEDULLA. It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic VASOCONSTRICTION and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the HEART, and dilates BRONCHI and cerebral vessels. It is used in ASTHMA and CARDIAC FAILURE and to delay absorption of local ANESTHETICS.
adrenaline - chemical	The active sympathomimetic hormone from the ADRENAL MEDULLA. It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic VASOCONSTRICTION and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the HEART, and dilates BRONCHI and cerebral vessels. It is used in ASTHMA and CARDIAC FAILURE and to delay absorption of local ANESTHETICS.
adrenal medulla hormone	chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs; secreted by the inner part of the adrenal gland.
adrenergic	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
benzfetamine	A sympathomimetic agent with properties similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. It is used in the treatment of obesity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1222)
adren agents	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
product containing betanidine	A guanidinium antihypertensive agent that acts by blocking adrenergic transmission. The precise mode of action is not clear.
debrisoquina	An adrenergic neuron-blocking drug similar in effects to GUANETHIDINE. It is also noteworthy in being a substrate for a polymorphic cytochrome P-450 enzyme. Persons with certain isoforms of this enzyme are unable to properly metabolize this and many other clinically important drugs. They are commonly referred to as having a debrisoquin 4-hydroxylase polymorphism.
ephedrine	A phenethylamine found in EPHEDRA SINICA. PSEUDOEPHEDRINE is an isomer. It is an alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonist that may also enhance release of norepinephrine. It has been used for asthma, heart failure, rhinitis, and urinary incontinence, and for its central nervous system stimulatory effects in the treatment of narcolepsy and depression. It has become less extensively used with the advent of more selective agonists.
adrenergic agents	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
guanethidine product	An antihypertensive agent that acts by inhibiting selectively transmission in post-ganglionic adrenergic nerves. It is believed to act mainly by preventing the release of norepinephrine at nerve endings and causes depletion of norepinephrine in peripheral sympathetic nerve terminals as well as in tissues.
adrenergic drugs	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
phentermine	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. It has been used most frequently in the treatment of obesity.
adrenergics	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
prenylamine	A drug formerly used in the treatment of angina pectoris but superseded by less hazardous drugs. Prenylamine depletes myocardial catecholamine stores and has some calcium channel blocking activity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1406)
debrisoquinum	An adrenergic neuron-blocking drug similar in effects to GUANETHIDINE. It is also noteworthy in being a substrate for a polymorphic cytochrome P-450 enzyme. Persons with certain isoforms of this enzyme are unable to properly metabolize this and many other clinically important drugs. They are commonly referred to as having a debrisoquin 4-hydroxylase polymorphism.
metamfetamine product	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
norepinephrine	Precursor of epinephrine that is secreted by the ADRENAL MEDULLA and is a widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter. Norepinephrine is the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers, and of the diffuse projection system in the brain that arises from the LOCUS CERULEUS. It is also found in plants and is used pharmacologically as a sympathomimetic.
debrisoquin	An adrenergic neuron-blocking drug similar in effects to GUANETHIDINE. It is also noteworthy in being a substrate for a polymorphic cytochrome P-450 enzyme. Persons with certain isoforms of this enzyme are unable to properly metabolize this and many other clinically important drugs. They are commonly referred to as having a debrisoquin 4-hydroxylase polymorphism.
methamphetamine	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
adrenergic drug	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
dl-prenylamine	A drug formerly used in the treatment of angina pectoris but superseded by less hazardous drugs. Prenylamine depletes myocardial catecholamine stores and has some calcium channel blocking activity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1406)
aminoglutethimide - chemical	An aromatase inhibitor that is used in the treatment of advanced BREAST CANCER.
betanidine	A guanidinium antihypertensive agent that acts by blocking adrenergic transmission. The precise mode of action is not clear.
adren drugs	Drugs that act on adrenergic receptors or affect the life cycle of adrenergic transmitters. Included here are adrenergic agonists and antagonists and agents that affect the synthesis, storage, uptake, metabolism, or release of adrenergic transmitters.
mephentermine	A sympathomimetic agent with specificity for alpha-1 adrenergic receptors. It is used to maintain BLOOD PRESSURE in hypotensive states such as following SPINAL ANESTHESIA.
metaraminol	A sympathomimetic agent that acts predominantly at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors. It has been used primarily as a vasoconstrictor in the treatment of HYPOTENSION.
phenamine	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
bétanidine	A guanidinium antihypertensive agent that acts by blocking adrenergic transmission. The precise mode of action is not clear.
debrisoquine	An adrenergic neuron-blocking drug similar in effects to GUANETHIDINE. It is also noteworthy in being a substrate for a polymorphic cytochrome P-450 enzyme. Persons with certain isoforms of this enzyme are unable to properly metabolize this and many other clinically important drugs. They are commonly referred to as having a debrisoquin 4-hydroxylase polymorphism.
guanéthidine	An antihypertensive agent that acts by inhibiting selectively transmission in post-ganglionic adrenergic nerves. It is believed to act mainly by preventing the release of norepinephrine at nerve endings and causes depletion of norepinephrine in peripheral sympathetic nerve terminals as well as in tissues.
chalk	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
amfetamine	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
benzphetamine	A sympathomimetic agent with properties similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. It is used in the treatment of obesity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1222)
guanethidines	An antihypertensive agent that acts by inhibiting selectively transmission in post-ganglionic adrenergic nerves. It is believed to act mainly by preventing the release of norepinephrine at nerve endings and causes depletion of norepinephrine in peripheral sympathetic nerve terminals as well as in tissues.
prenylamine product	A drug formerly used in the treatment of angina pectoris but superseded by less hazardous drugs. Prenylamine depletes myocardial catecholamine stores and has some calcium channel blocking activity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1406)
bethanidine	A guanidinium antihypertensive agent that acts by blocking adrenergic transmission. The precise mode of action is not clear.
phentermine product	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. It has been used most frequently in the treatment of obesity.
oxidopamine	A neurotransmitter analogue that depletes noradrenergic stores in nerve endings and induces a reduction of dopamine levels in the brain. Its mechanism of action is related to the production of cytolytic free-radicals.
autonomic agent	Agents affecting the function of, or mimicking the actions of, the autonomic nervous system and thereby having an effect on such processes as respiration, circulation, digestion, body temperature regulation, certain endocrine gland secretions, etc.
amphetamine	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
oktadin	An antihypertensive agent that acts by inhibiting selectively transmission in post-ganglionic adrenergic nerves. It is believed to act mainly by preventing the release of norepinephrine at nerve endings and causes depletion of norepinephrine in peripheral sympathetic nerve terminals as well as in tissues.
guanethidine	An antihypertensive agent that acts by inhibiting selectively transmission in post-ganglionic adrenergic nerves. It is believed to act mainly by preventing the release of norepinephrine at nerve endings and causes depletion of norepinephrine in peripheral sympathetic nerve terminals as well as in tissues.
adrenergic antagonist	group of drugs that bind to but do not activate adrenergic receptors; they block the actions of the endogenous adrenergic transmitters epinepherine and norepinepherine.
adrenergic receptor agonist	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
etilefrinum	A phenylephrine-related beta-1 adrenergic and alpha adrenergic agonist used as a cardiotonic and antihypotensive agent.
noradrenaline bitartrate	A bitartrate salt of norepinephrine, a synthetic phenylethylamine that mimics the sympathomimetic actions of the endogenous norepinephrine. Norepinephrine bitartrate acts directly on the alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors. Clinically, norepinephrine is used as a peripheral vasoconstrictor that causes constriction of arterial and venous beds via its alpha-adrenergic action. It is also used as a potent inotropic and chronotropic stimulator of the heart mediated through its beta-1 adrenergic action.
etilefrine pivalate	A prodrug of etilefrine, an adrenergic agonist with vasoconstrictive activity. Etilefrine pivalate is hydrolyzed to etilefrine, which binds to and activates alpha-1-adrenergic receptors of the arteriolar and venous vasculature. This causes smooth muscle contraction and leads to a decrease in venous pooling and increase in blood pressure. This agent may also stimulate beta-1 adrenergic receptors leading to positive chronotropic and inotropic effects.
agent affecting nervous system	An agent that exerts a physiologic effect on neurotransmission or on any anatomic entity that is part of the nervous system, including the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS).
adrenergic alpha-receptor agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
naphazoline	An adrenergic vasoconstrictor agent used as a decongestant.
adrenergic alpha-agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
norsynephrine	An alpha-adrenergic sympathomimetic amine, biosynthesized from tyramine in the CNS and platelets and also in invertebrate nervous systems. It is used to treat hypotension and as a cardiotonic. The natural D(-) form is more potent than the L(+) form in producing cardiovascular adrenergic responses. It is also a neurotransmitter in some invertebrates.
alpha adren agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
synephrine	Sympathetic alpha-adrenergic agonist with actions like PHENYLEPHRINE. It is used as a vasoconstrictor in circulatory failure, asthma, nasal congestion, and glaucoma.
alpha adrenergic receptor agonist product	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
octopamine	An alpha-adrenergic sympathomimetic amine, biosynthesized from tyramine in the CNS and platelets and also in invertebrate nervous systems. It is used to treat hypotension and as a cardiotonic. The natural D(-) form is more potent than the L(+) form in producing cardiovascular adrenergic responses. It is also a neurotransmitter in some invertebrates.
adrenergic alpha-agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
oxymetazoline	A direct acting sympathomimetic used as a vasoconstrictor to relieve nasal congestion. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1251)
phenylephrine	An alpha-1 adrenergic agonist used as a mydriatic, nasal decongestant, and cardiotonic agent.
alpha adren ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
propylhexedrine	A propylamine derivative with sympathomimetic property. Propylhexedrine binds to and activates alpha-adrenergic receptors in the mucosa of the respiratory tract, thereby mimicking the actions of norepinephrine and epinephrine. This results in vasoconstriction and reduces swelling and inflammation of the mucous membrane lining, therefore relieving nasal and sinus congestion.
xylazine	An adrenergic alpha-2 agonist used as a sedative, analgesic and centrally acting muscle relaxant in VETERINARY MEDICINE.
alpha adrenergic receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
brimonidine tartrate	The tartrate salt form of brimonidine, an imidazole derivative and a selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist. Upon ocular administration, brimonidine tartrate acts on the blood vessels causing them to constrict which leads to a decrease in the production of aqueous humor. Brimonidine tartrate also enhances the outflow of aqueous humor. This drug is used in the treatment of glaucoma to reduce intraocular pressure.
guanfacine product	A centrally acting antihypertensive agent with specificity towards ADRENERGIC ALPHA-2 RECEPTORS.
ergotamine tartrate	The tartrate salt form of ergotamine, an ergot alkaloid and adrenergic alpha agonist with vasoconstrictor activity. Ergotamine tartrate selectively binds to alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby stimulating vascular smooth muscle and causing vasoconstriction in both arteries and veins. Ergotamine tartrate also blocks serotonin 5-HT1D receptors, thereby also causing vasoconstriction in cerebral blood vessels. Constriction of cerebral blood vessels caused by this agent may reduce the blood flow and pressure in cerebral arteries and may relieve the pain of vascular headaches.
naphazoline hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of naphazoline, an imidazole derivative and a direct-acting sympathomimetic amine with vasoconstrictive properties. Upon ocular administration, naphazoline hydrochloride exerts its effect by acting on alpha-adrenergic receptors in the arterioles of the conjunctiva to produce vasoconstriction, resulting in decreased conjunctival congestion and diminished itching, irritation and redness.
alpha-adrenergic agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
product containing brimonidine	An imidazole derivative and a selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist. Upon ocular administration, brimonidine acts on the blood vessels causing them to constrict which leads to a decrease in the production of aqueous humor. Brimonidine also enhances the uveoscleral outflow of aqueous humor. This reduces intraocular pressure.
recept agon alpha adren	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
tizanidine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of tizanidine, an imidazoline derivative structurally similar to clonidine and an adrenergic agonist with muscle relaxant property. Tizanidine stimulates alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in the central nervous system, thereby inhibiting presynaptic release of norepinephrine and increasing the inhibitory effect on alpha motor neurons and motor reflexes. Tizanidine exerts some activity at the postsynaptic excitatory amino acid receptors and imidazoline receptors which may contribute to the overall reduction in facilitation of spinal motor neurons. Overall, tizanidine hydrochloride causes muscle relaxation, reduces spasticity and antinociceptive effects.
piclidenoson	An orally bioavailable, adenosine A3 receptor (A3AR) agonist with potential anti-inflammatory activity. Upon administration, piclidenoson selectively targets, binds to and activates the cell surface-expressed A3AR, thereby activating transduction pathways in which A3AR plays a key role. This inhibits nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) signaling and inhibits inflammatory cytokine production, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and several interleukins. A3AR, a G protein-coupled receptor, plays a key role in many inflammatory diseases, and in certain types of cancer.
alpha adrenergic agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
adren alpha recept agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
alpha adren recept agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
racemic epinephrine	A racemic mixture of d-epinephrine and l-epinephrine.
adren alpha recept ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
adrenergic agonists alpha	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
methyl dopa	An alpha-2 adrenergic agonist that has both central and peripheral nervous system effects. Its primary clinical use is as an antihypertensive agent.
midodrine	An ethanolamine derivative that is an adrenergic alpha-1 agonist. It is used as a vasoconstrictor agent in the treatment of HYPOTENSION.
adren alpha ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
para-octopamine	An alpha-adrenergic sympathomimetic amine, biosynthesized from tyramine in the CNS and platelets and also in invertebrate nervous systems. It is used to treat hypotension and as a cardiotonic. The natural D(-) form is more potent than the L(+) form in producing cardiovascular adrenergic responses. It is also a neurotransmitter in some invertebrates.
oximetazolinum	A direct acting sympathomimetic used as a vasoconstrictor to relieve nasal congestion. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1251)
recept agon adren alpha	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
adrenergic alpha agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
dexmedetomidine product	An imidazole derivate and active d-isomer of medetomidine with analgesic, anxiolytic and sedative properties. Dexmedetomidine selectively binds to presynaptic alpha-2 adrenoceptors located in the brain, thereby inhibiting the release of norepinephrine from synaptic vesicles. This leads to an inhibition of postsynaptic activation of adrenoceptors, which inhibit sympathetic activity, thereby leading to sedation and anxiolysis. The analgesic effect of this agent is mediated by binding to alpha-2 adrenoceptors in the spinal cord.
medetomidine	An agonist of RECEPTORS, ADRENERGIC ALPHA-2 that is used in veterinary medicine for its analgesic and sedative properties. It is the racemate of DEXMEDETOMIDINE.
adrenergic receptor agonists alpha	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
recept adren alpha	alpha-1 is coupled to phospholipase C, such that stimulation results in production of second messengers DAG and in inositol phosphates; alpha-2 is coupled to adenylate cyclase such that stimulation lowers cyclic AMP.
noradrenaline	Precursor of epinephrine that is secreted by the ADRENAL MEDULLA and is a widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter. Norepinephrine is the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers, and of the diffuse projection system in the brain that arises from the LOCUS CERULEUS. It is also found in plants and is used pharmacologically as a sympathomimetic.
adren alpha agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
racemic mixture adrenaline	A racemic mixture of d-epinephrine and l-epinephrine.
alpha adren recept ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
etilefrine	A phenylephrine-related beta-1 adrenergic and alpha adrenergic agonist used as a cardiotonic and antihypotensive agent.
alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
alpha adrenergic receptor agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
alpha-adrenergic receptor agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
alpha-adrenergic agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
arterenol	Precursor of epinephrine that is secreted by the ADRENAL MEDULLA and is a widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter. Norepinephrine is the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers, and of the diffuse projection system in the brain that arises from the LOCUS CERULEUS. It is also found in plants and is used pharmacologically as a sympathomimetic.
adrenergic alpha receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
phenyl propanolamine	A sympathomimetic that acts mainly by causing release of NOREPINEPHRINE but also has direct agonist activity at some adrenergic receptors. It is most commonly used as a nasal vasoconstrictor and an appetite depressant.
racepinephrine	A racemic mixture of d-epinephrine and l-epinephrine.
norsympatol	An alpha-adrenergic sympathomimetic amine, biosynthesized from tyramine in the CNS and platelets and also in invertebrate nervous systems. It is used to treat hypotension and as a cardiotonic. The natural D(-) form is more potent than the L(+) form in producing cardiovascular adrenergic responses. It is also a neurotransmitter in some invertebrates.
methoxamine	An alpha-1 adrenergic agonist that causes prolonged peripheral VASOCONSTRICTION.
levarterenol bitartrate	A bitartrate salt of norepinephrine, a synthetic phenylethylamine that mimics the sympathomimetic actions of the endogenous norepinephrine. Norepinephrine bitartrate acts directly on the alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors. Clinically, norepinephrine is used as a peripheral vasoconstrictor that causes constriction of arterial and venous beds via its alpha-adrenergic action. It is also used as a potent inotropic and chronotropic stimulator of the heart mediated through its beta-1 adrenergic action.
adrenergic alpha-receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
midodrine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of midodrine, a direct-acting prodrug and sympathomimetic agent with antihypotensive properties. Midodrine is converted to its active metabolite, desglymidodrine by deglycination reaction. Desglymidodrine selectively binds to and activates alpha-1-adrenergic receptors of the arteriolar and venous vasculature. This causes smooth muscle contraction and leads to an elevation of blood pressure. Desglymidodrine diffuses poorly across the blood-brain barrier, and is therefore not associated with effects on the central nervous system.
adrenergic agonist	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
receptor agonist	A drug or substance that binds to a receptor inside a cell or on its surface and causes the same action as the substance that normally binds to the receptor.
norepinephrine bitartrate	A bitartrate salt of norepinephrine, a synthetic phenylethylamine that mimics the sympathomimetic actions of the endogenous norepinephrine. Norepinephrine bitartrate acts directly on the alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors. Clinically, norepinephrine is used as a peripheral vasoconstrictor that causes constriction of arterial and venous beds via its alpha-adrenergic action. It is also used as a potent inotropic and chronotropic stimulator of the heart mediated through its beta-1 adrenergic action.
adrenergic alpha agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate alpha adrenergic receptors.
phenylephrine bitartrate	The bitartrate salt form of phenylephrine, a direct-acting sympathomimetic amine chemically related to adrenaline and ephedrine with potent vasoconstricting activity. Phenylephrine is a post-synaptic alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist that causes vasoconstriction, increases systolic/diastolic pressures, reflex bradycardia, and increases stroke output.
levonordefrin	The levoisomer of nordefrin, a synthetic catecholamine and norepinephrine derivative with sympathomimetic and antihypertensive effects. Levonordefrin's antihypertensive effect is exerted through activation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in the cardiovascular control center of the CNS thereby suppressing the sympathetic output from the brain and subsequently lowering blood pressure. Levonordefrin binds to and activates peripheral alpha 2- adrenergic receptors, thereby causing vasoconstriction.
product containing metaraminol	A sympathomimetic agent that acts predominantly at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors. It has been used primarily as a vasoconstrictor in the treatment of HYPOTENSION.
methoxamin	An alpha-1 adrenergic agonist that causes prolonged peripheral VASOCONSTRICTION.
product containing midodrine	An ethanolamine derivative that is an adrenergic alpha-1 agonist. It is used as a vasoconstrictor agent in the treatment of HYPOTENSION.
m hydroxynorephedrine	A sympathomimetic agent that acts predominantly at alpha-1 adrenergic receptors. It has been used primarily as a vasoconstrictor in the treatment of HYPOTENSION.
adren recept ag	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
alpha block adren	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
co-dergocrine mesylate	A mixture of the mesylates (methane sulfonates) of DIHYDROERGOCORNINE; DIHYDROERGOCRISTINE; and the alpha- and beta-isomers of DIHYDROERGOCRYPTINE. The substance produces a generalized peripheral vasodilation and a fall in arterial pressure and has been used to treat symptoms of mild to moderate impairment of mental function in the elderly.
adrenergic receptor blockaders alpha	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
nicergoline	An ergot derivative that has been used as a cerebral vasodilator and in peripheral vascular disease. It may ameliorate cognitive deficits in CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS.
adren alpha antag	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
piperoxan	A benzodioxane alpha-adrenergic blocking agent with considerable stimulatory action. It has been used to diagnose PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA and as an antihypertensive agent.
alpha adrenergic receptor blockaders	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
tolazoline	A vasodilator that apparently has direct actions on blood vessels and also increases cardiac output. Tolazoline can interact to some degree with histamine, adrenergic, and cholinergic receptors, but the mechanisms of its therapeutic effects are not clear. It is used in treatment of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn.
alpha adrenergic blocking agents	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
bretylium tosylate	An agent that blocks the release of adrenergic transmitters and may have other actions. It was formerly used as an antihypertensive agent, but is now proposed as an anti-arrhythmic.
alpha-adrenergic blockers	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
phentolaminum	A nonselective alpha-adrenergic antagonist. It is used in the treatment of hypertension and hypertensive emergencies, pheochromocytoma, vasospasm of RAYNAUD DISEASE and frostbite, clonidine withdrawal syndrome, impotence, and peripheral vascular disease.
alpha adrenergic blockers	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
moxisylyte	An alpha-adrenergic blocking agent that is used in Raynaud's disease. It is also used locally in the eye to reverse the mydriasis caused by phenylephrine and other sympathomimetic agents. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1312)
alpha-adrenergic blocking agents	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
alfuzosin	A synthetic quinazoline compound with smooth muscle relaxing activity. Alfuzosin selectively binds to and antagonizes alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in smooth muscle of the bladder neck and prostate, thereby relaxing the smooth muscle and decreasing the obstruction and urethral resistance seen with benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate cancer. This agent also blocks alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in peripheral vascular smooth muscle, which leads to vasodilatation and a subsequent decrease in peripheral vascular resistance.
idazoxan	A benzodioxane-linked imidazole that has alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist activity.
alpha adrenergic blocker	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
doxazosin mesylate	The mesylate salt form of doxazosin, a quinazoline compound with smooth muscle relaxing activity. Doxazosin mesylate selectively antagonizes alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in smooth muscle of the bladder neck and prostate, thereby relaxing the smooth muscle and decreasing the obstruction and urethral resistance seen with benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH). This may improve BPH symptoms. This agent also blocks alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in peripheral vascular smooth muscle, which leads to vasodilatation and a subsequent decrease in peripheral vascular resistance. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29005" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29005" NCI Thesaurus)
alfuzosin hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of alfuzosin, a quinazoline compound with smooth muscle-relaxing activity. Alfuzosin selectively binds to and antagonizes post-synaptic alpha-1-adrenoreceptors in smooth muscle of the prostate, bladder base, bladder neck, prostatic capsule, and prostatic urethra, initiating relaxation of smooth muscle and resulting in improvement of urine flow and the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). This agent also blocks alpha-1-adrenoreceptors in peripheral vascular smooth muscle, resulting in vasodilatation and a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance.
adren alpha recept block	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
yohimbe	A plant alkaloid with alpha-2-adrenergic blocking activity. Yohimbine has been used as a mydriatic and in the treatment of ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION.
phentolamine mesylate	The mesylate salt of a synthetic imidazoline with alpha-adrenergic antagonist activity. As a competitive alpha-adrenergic antagonist, phentolamine binds to alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors, resulting in a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance and vasodilatation. This agent also may block 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors and stimulate release of histamine from mast cells.
dapiprazole hcl	An alpha-1-adrenergic antagonist that acts by blocking alpha-adrenergic receptors in the smooth muscle of blood vessels (arteries, arterioles and veins), gastrointestinal tract, and radial smooth muscle of the iris. This prevents smooth muscle contraction and results in vasodilatation. Administered in the eye, dapiprazole hydrochloride produces miosis. In the heart, it may antagonize alpha-1 adrenoreceptors in myocytes causing a mild negative inotropic effect.
alpha blocker	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
tamsulosin hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of tamsulosin, a sulfonamide derivative with adrenergic antagonist activity. Tamsulosin selectivity binds to and blocks the activity of alpha1 adrenoreceptors in the human prostate and bladder neck; blockade of these adrenoceptors can cause smooth muscle in the prostate and bladder neck to relax, resulting in an improvement in urinary flow rate. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29486" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29486" NCI Thesaurus)
adrenergic alpha receptor blockaders	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
silodosin	An orally available, alpha-1 adrenoreceptor (alpha-1a) selective antagonist that can be used to relieve symptoms of benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH). Upon administration, silodosin selectively binds alpha-1a receptors located in the human prostate and bladder with high affinity and blocks signaling pathways mediated by alpha-1a. Blockade of these receptors causes smooth muscle relaxation, lowers intraurethral pressure, and results in improved urine flow and a reduction in the symptoms of BPH, such as difficulty with urinating, painful urination, urinary frequency and incomplete bladder emptying. In addition, silodosin may be used to improve lower urinary tract symptoms, which can occur after receiving radiation therapy for prostate cancer.
alpha-adrenergic blocking agent	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
co dergocrine	A mixture of three different hydrogenated derivatives of ERGOTAMINE: DIHYDROERGOCORNINE; DIHYDROERGOCRISTINE; and DIHYDROERGOCRYPTINE. Dihydroergotoxine has been proposed to be a neuroprotective agent and a nootropic agent. The mechanism of its therapeutic actions is not clear, but it can act as an alpha-adrenergic antagonist and a dopamine agonist. The methanesulfonate salts of this mixture of alkaloids are called ERGOLOID MESYLATES.
alpha adren recept block	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
nicergolinum	An ergot derivative that has been used as a cerebral vasodilator and in peripheral vascular disease. It may ameliorate cognitive deficits in CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS.
adrenergic alpha-blockers	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
phentolamine	A nonselective alpha-adrenergic antagonist. It is used in the treatment of hypertension and hypertensive emergencies, pheochromocytoma, vasospasm of RAYNAUD DISEASE and frostbite, clonidine withdrawal syndrome, impotence, and peripheral vascular disease.
quinidine	An optical isomer of quinine, extracted from the bark of the CHINCHONA tree and similar plant species. This alkaloid dampens the excitability of cardiac and skeletal muscles by blocking sodium and potassium currents across cellular membranes. It prolongs cellular ACTION POTENTIALS, and decreases automaticity. Quinidine also blocks muscarinic and alpha-adrenergic neurotransmission.
mianserin	A tetracyclic compound with antidepressant effects. It may cause drowsiness and hematological problems. Its mechanism of therapeutic action is not well understood, although it apparently blocks alpha-adrenergic, histamine H1, and some types of serotonin receptors.
prazosin	A selective adrenergic alpha-1 antagonist used in the treatment of HEART FAILURE; HYPERTENSION; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; RAYNAUD DISEASE; PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY; and URINARY RETENTION.
product containing quinidine	An optical isomer of quinine, extracted from the bark of the CHINCHONA tree and similar plant species. This alkaloid dampens the excitability of cardiac and skeletal muscles by blocking sodium and potassium currents across cellular membranes. It prolongs cellular ACTION POTENTIALS, and decreases automaticity. Quinidine also blocks muscarinic and alpha-adrenergic neurotransmission.
cv agents	Agents that affect the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction, blood vessel diameter, or blood volume.
dibenzyl chlorethylamine	En alfa-adrenerg antagonist.
fentolamin	A nonselective alpha-adrenergic antagonist. It is used in the treatment of hypertension and hypertensive emergencies, pheochromocytoma, vasospasm of RAYNAUD DISEASE and frostbite, clonidine withdrawal syndrome, impotence, and peripheral vascular disease.
adrenergic alpha blockers	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
ergoloid mesylates	A mixture of the mesylates (methane sulfonates) of DIHYDROERGOCORNINE; DIHYDROERGOCRISTINE; and the alpha- and beta-isomers of DIHYDROERGOCRYPTINE. The substance produces a generalized peripheral vasodilation and a fall in arterial pressure and has been used to treat symptoms of mild to moderate impairment of mental function in the elderly.
agent alpha adrenoceptor blocking	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
adrenergic agent alpha blocking	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
alpha adrenergic receptor antagonist product	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
tolazolina	A vasodilator that apparently has direct actions on blood vessels and also increases cardiac output. Tolazoline can interact to some degree with histamine, adrenergic, and cholinergic receptors, but the mechanisms of its therapeutic effects are not clear. It is used in treatment of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn.
adrenergic alpha antagonists	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
flupentixolum	A thioxanthene neuroleptic that, unlike CHLORPROMAZINE, is claimed to have CNS-activating properties. It is used in the treatment of psychoses although not in excited or manic patients. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p595)
alpha adren block	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
labetalol	A salicylamide derivative that is a non-cardioselective blocker of BETA-ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and ALPHA-1 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS.
mirtazapine	A piperazinoazepine tetracyclic compound that enhances the release of NOREPINEPHRINE and SEROTONIN through blockage of presynaptic ALPHA-2 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS. It also blocks both 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 serotonin receptors and is a potent HISTAMINE H1 RECEPTOR antagonist. It is used for the treatment of depression, and may also be useful for the treatment of anxiety disorders.
terazosin	A drug used to treat urinary problems caused by an enlarged prostate. It is also used to treat high blood pressure and is being studied in the treatment of other conditions. Terazosin relaxes muscle tissue in blood vessels and in the prostate. It is a type of alpha blocker.
tamsulosin	A drug used to treat urinary problems caused by an enlarged prostate. Tamsulosin relaxes the muscles of the prostate and bladder, which helps the flow of urine. It is a type of alpha blocker.
alpha adrenergic antagonists	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
prazosin hydrochloride	A synthetic piperazine derivative with hypotensive antiadrenergic properties, Prazosin Hydrochloride reduces peripheral resistance and relaxes vascular smooth muscles as a selective adrenergic alpha-1 antagonist by a mechanism not completely known. It is used in the treatment of heart failure, hypertension, pheochromocytoma, Raynaud's syndrome, prostatic hypertrophy, and urinary retention. (NCI04)
yohimbine	A plant alkaloid with alpha-2-adrenergic blocking activity. Yohimbine has been used as a mydriatic and in the treatment of ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION.
terazosin hydrochloride	A drug used to treat urinary problems caused by an enlarged prostate. It is also used to treat high blood pressure and is being studied in the treatment of other conditions. Terazosin hydrochloride relaxes muscle tissue in blood vessels and in the prostate. It is a type of alpha blocker.
dapiprazole hydrochloride	An alpha-1-adrenergic antagonist that acts by blocking alpha-adrenergic receptors in the smooth muscle of blood vessels (arteries, arterioles and veins), gastrointestinal tract, and radial smooth muscle of the iris. This prevents smooth muscle contraction and results in vasodilatation. Administered in the eye, dapiprazole hydrochloride produces miosis. In the heart, it may antagonize alpha-1 adrenoreceptors in myocytes causing a mild negative inotropic effect.
adrenergic blocking agent	group of drugs that bind to but do not activate adrenergic receptors; they block the actions of the endogenous adrenergic transmitters epinepherine and norepinepherine.
labetolol	A salicylamide derivative that is a non-cardioselective blocker of BETA-ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and ALPHA-1 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS.
benzazoline	A vasodilator that apparently has direct actions on blood vessels and also increases cardiac output. Tolazoline can interact to some degree with histamine, adrenergic, and cholinergic receptors, but the mechanisms of its therapeutic effects are not clear. It is used in treatment of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn.
alpha-adrenoceptor blocking agent	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
doxazosin	A prazosin-related compound that is a selective alpha-1-adrenergic blocker.
tamsulosinum	A drug used to treat urinary problems caused by an enlarged prostate. Tamsulosin relaxes the muscles of the prostate and bladder, which helps the flow of urine. It is a type of alpha blocker.
alpha-blocker	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
labetalol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride form of labetalol, a third generation selective alpha-1-adrenergic antagonist and non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with vasodilatory and antihypertensive properties. Labetalol competitively binds to alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in vascular smooth muscle, thereby inhibiting the adrenergic stimulation of endothelial cell function and vasoconstriction in peripheral blood vessels. This agent also binds to beta-receptors in the bronchial and vascular smooth muscle, resulting in a decrease in adrenergic stimulation. The result is a decrease in resting and exercise heart rates, cardiac output, and in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, thereby resulting in vasodilation, and negative chronotropic and inotropic cardiac effects.
clopenthixol	A thioxanthene with therapeutic actions similar to the phenothiazine antipsychotics. It is an antagonist at D1 and D2 dopamine receptors.
alpha adren block agents	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
indoramin	An alpha-1 adrenergic antagonist that is commonly used as an antihypertensive agent.
product containing mianserin	A tetracyclic compound with antidepressant effects. It may cause drowsiness and hematological problems. Its mechanism of therapeutic action is not well understood, although it apparently blocks alpha-adrenergic, histamine H1, and some types of serotonin receptors.
alpha-adrenoceptor blocking drug	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
cardiovascular agent	Agents that affect the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction, blood vessel diameter, or blood volume.
vasodilator agent	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
carvedilol	A carbazole and propanol derivative that acts as a non-cardioselective beta blocker and vasodilator. It has blocking activity for ALPHA 1 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and, at higher doses, may function as a blocker of CALCIUM CHANNELS; it also has antioxidant properties. Carvedilol is used in the treatment of HYPERTENSION; ANGINA PECTORIS; and HEART FAILURE. It can also reduce the risk of death following MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
adren alpha blockers	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
cardiovascular agents	Agents that affect the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction, blood vessel diameter, or blood volume.
antidepressants mianserin	A tetracyclic compound with antidepressant effects. It may cause drowsiness and hematological problems. Its mechanism of therapeutic action is not well understood, although it apparently blocks alpha-adrenergic, histamine H1, and some types of serotonin receptors.
nicergoline product	An ergot derivative that has been used as a cerebral vasodilator and in peripheral vascular disease. It may ameliorate cognitive deficits in CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS.
alpha blockers	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
nicergolin	An ergot derivative that has been used as a cerebral vasodilator and in peripheral vascular disease. It may ameliorate cognitive deficits in CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS.
alpha antiadrenergic agent	drugs that bind to but do not activate alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists; adrenergic alpha-antagonists are used in the treatment of hypertension, vasospasm, peripheral vascular disease, shock, and pheochromocytoma.
adren beta agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
adrenalin	The active sympathomimetic hormone from the ADRENAL MEDULLA. It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic VASOCONSTRICTION and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the HEART, and dilates BRONCHI and cerebral vessels. It is used in ASTHMA and CARDIAC FAILURE and to delay absorption of local ANESTHETICS.
beta-adrenoceptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
beta adrenergic receptor agonist product	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
isoxsuprine	A beta-adrenergic agonist that causes direct relaxation of uterine and vascular smooth muscle. Its vasodilating actions are greater on the arteries supplying skeletal muscle than on those supplying skin. It is used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disease and in premature labor.
beta adrenergic agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
buphenine	A beta-adrenergic agonist. Nylidrin causes peripheral vasodilation, a positive inotropic effect, and increased gastric volume of gastric juice. It is used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disorders and premature labor.
tretoquinol	An adrenergic beta-agonist used as a bronchodilator agent in asthma therapy.
beta-adrenergic receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
arbutamine	A synthetic catecholamine with positive chronotropic and inotropic properties, used in echocardiography and diagnostic coronary angiography. Arbutamine binds to and activates beta-1 adrenergic receptors in the myocardium, thereby increasing heart rate and increasing force of myocardial contraction. By exerting a chronotropic and inotropic effect, arbutamine mimics the cardiac stress caused by exercise that may prevent adequate tissue perfusion and oxygenation, and may provoke myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease.
beta-adrenergic agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
beta-adrenergic agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
albuterol	A short-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist that is primarily used as a bronchodilator agent to treat ASTHMA. Albuterol is prepared as a racemic mixture of R(-) and S(+) stereoisomers. The stereospecific preparation of R(-) isomer of albuterol is referred to as levalbuterol.
adrenergic beta-agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
rac-dobutamine	A catecholamine derivative with specificity for BETA-1 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS. It is commonly used as a cardiotonic agent after CARDIAC SURGERY and during DOBUTAMINE STRESS ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY.
fenoterol	A synthetic adrenergic beta-2 agonist that is used as a bronchodilator and tocolytic.
adrenergic beta-receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
hexoprenaline	Stimulant of adrenergic beta 2 receptors. It is used as a bronchodilator, antiasthmatic agent, and tocolytic agent.
adren beta recept agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
adren beta ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
nylidrin	A beta-adrenergic agonist. Nylidrin causes peripheral vasodilation, a positive inotropic effect, and increased gastric volume of gastric juice. It is used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disorders and premature labor.
adrenergic beta receptor agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
oxyfedrine	A drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, heart failure, conduction defects, and myocardial infarction. It is a partial agonist at beta adrenergic receptors and acts as a coronary vasodilator and cardiotonic agent.
ritodrine product	An adrenergic beta-2 agonist used to control PREMATURE LABOR.
beta adrenergic receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
formoterol product	A long-acting beta-adrenergic receptor agonist with bronchodilator activity. Formoterol selectively binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle, thereby activating intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, improve mucociliary clearance and reduce mediator substance release from inflammatory cells, especially from mast cells.
pirbuterol	A short-acting, beta-adrenergic receptor agonist with bronchodilator activity. Pirbuterol selectively binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle, thereby activating intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, improve mucociliary clearance and inhibit the release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells.
adrenergic beta agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
xamoterol product	A phenoxypropanolamine derivative that is a selective beta-1-adrenergic agonist.
beta-adrenergic receptor agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
flerobuterol	A beta-adrenoceptor agonist with potential antidepressant activity. Even though preferentially interacts with beta-adrenergic receptors, flerobuterol may exhibit antidepressant activity. Sustained administration of flerobuterol, similar to other beta-adrenergic agonists, may increase serotonin (5-HT) synthesis, thereby enhance serotonergic neurotransmission, partially through an increased transport of the serotonin precursor (tryptophan) to brain.
betamimetics	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
beta adrenergic agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
isoproterenol sulfate	The sulfate salt form of isoproterenol, a beta-adrenergic receptor agonist with bronchodilator activity. Isoproterenol binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle, thereby activating intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, improve mucociliary clearance and inhibit the release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells.
beta adrenergic receptor agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
ritodrine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of ritodrine, a phenethylamine derivative with tocolytic activity. Ritodrine hydrochloride binds to and activates beta-2 adrenergic receptors of myocytes in the uterine myometrium, which results in decreased intensity and frequency of uterine contraction. Specifically, ritodrine hydrochloride probably activates adenyl cyclase, thereby increasing production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), which in turn enhancing the efflux of calcium from vascular smooth muscle cells. A lack of intracellular calcium prevents uterine myometrial contraction. In addition, this agent may directly inactivate myosin light chain kinase, a critical enzyme necessary for the initiation of muscle contractions.
fenoterol hydrobromide	Fenoterol BromideThe hydrobromide salt of fenoterol, a short-acting sympathomimetic agent with bronchodilator activity. Fenoterol stimulates beta-2-adrenergic receptors in the lungs, thereby activating the enzyme adenylate cyclase that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP concentrations relax bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, and reduce inflammatory cell mediator release, especially from mast cells.
antiadrenergic beta receptor agents	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
protokylol hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of protokylol, a derivative of the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol with bronchodilator activity. Protokylol binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle, thereby activating intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, improve mucociliary clearance and inhibit the release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells.
arbutamine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of arbutamine, a synthetic catecholamine with positive chronotropic and inotropic properties, used in echocardiography and diagnostic coronary angiography. Arbutamine binds to and activates beta-1 adrenergic receptors in the myocardium, thereby increasing heart rate and increasing force of myocardial contraction. By exerting a chronotropic and inotropic effect, arbutamine mimics the cardiac stress caused by exercise that may prevent adequate tissue perfusion and oxygenation, and may provoke myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease.
dobutamine tartrate	The tartrate salt form of dobutamine, a synthetic catecholamine with sympathomimetic activity. Dobutamine primarily binds to and stimulates beta-1-adrenergic receptors located in the myocardium. As a result, it leads to a positive inotropic effect and increases in cardiac output.
levalbuterol tartrate	The tartrate salt form of levalbuterol, the R-enantiomer of the short-acting beta-2 adrenergic receptor agonist albuterol, with bronchodilator activity. Levalbuterol selectively binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle, thereby activating intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, improve mucociliary clearance and inhibit the release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells.
meluadrine	A beta-adrenergic receptor agonist with tocolytic activity. Meluadrine binds to and activates beta-2 adrenergic receptors of myometrial smooth muscle in the uterus, thereby activates adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels leads to a reduction in intracellular calcium concentration, thereby causes smooth muscle relaxation and decreases the intensity of uterine contractions.
formoterol fumarate oral	The orally bioavailable fumarate salt of formoterol, a long-acting, selective beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist with bronchodilating and potential anti-cachexia and anabolic activities. In addition to formoterol's bronchodilating activity, formoterol exhibits anti-cachexia activity through the inhibition of the ATP-ubiquitin-dependent proteolytic system, which may result in a decrease in protein degradation and muscle cell apoptosis. In addition, formoterol may also increase insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling, resulting in an increase in protein synthesis. This agent may also inhibit the calcium-dependent calpain system, resulting in the inhibition of muscle wasting.
agonists beta adrenergic receptor	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
clenbuterol	A substituted phenylaminoethanol that has beta-2 adrenomimetic properties at very low doses. It is used as a bronchodilator in asthma.
recept agon beta adren	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
metaproterenol	A beta-2 adrenergic agonist used in the treatment of ASTHMA and BRONCHIAL SPASM.
beta adren ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
adrenergic beta agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
prenalterol	A partial adrenergic agonist with functional beta 1-receptor specificity and inotropic effect. It is effective in the treatment of acute CARDIAC FAILURE, postmyocardial infarction low-output syndrome, SHOCK, and reducing ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION in the SHY-RAGER SYNDROME.
ritodrine	An adrenergic beta-2 agonist used to control PREMATURE LABOR.
terbutaline	A selective beta-2 adrenergic agonist used as a bronchodilator and tocolytic.
adrenergic agonists beta	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
adrenergic beta-receptor agonists	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
vasodilators general nylidrin	A beta-adrenergic agonist. Nylidrin causes peripheral vasodilation, a positive inotropic effect, and increased gastric volume of gastric juice. It is used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disorders and premature labor.
trimethoquinol	An adrenergic beta-agonist used as a bronchodilator agent in asthma therapy.
adrenergic beta-agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
isoprenaline	Isopropyl analog of EPINEPHRINE; beta-sympathomimetic that acts on the heart, bronchi, skeletal muscle, alimentary tract, etc. It is used mainly as bronchodilator and heart stimulant.
adrenergic beta receptor agonist	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
adren beta recept ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
beta adren recept ag	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
dopamine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of dopamine, a monoamine compound with positive inotropic activity. Dopamine is a naturally occurring catecholamine formed by decarboxylation of dehydroxyphenylalanine and a precursor of norepinephrine and epinephrine. Dopamine binds to alpha-1- and beta-1- adrenergic receptors. Mediated through myocardial beta-1-adrenergic receptors, dopamine increase heart rate and force, thereby increasing cardiac output. Alpha-1-adrenergic receptor stimulation on vascular smooth muscle, leads to vasoconstriction and results in an increase in systemic vascular resistance. Stimulation of dopaminergic receptors in renal vasculature, leads to renal blood vessel dilation, and an increase in glomerular filtration rate, renal blood flow, sodium excretion, and urine output.
beta adren agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
agonist	A drug or substance that binds to a receptor inside a cell or on its surface and causes the same action as the substance that normally binds to the receptor.
dobutamine	A catecholamine derivative with specificity for BETA-1 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS. It is commonly used as a cardiotonic agent after CARDIAC SURGERY and during DOBUTAMINE STRESS ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY.
dobutamine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of dobutamine, a synthetic catecholamine with direct inotropic activity. Dobutamine hydrochloride, mimics the effects of dopamine and stimulates beta-1 adrenergic receptors located in the myocardium. This leads to an increase in heart rate and force and results in an increase in cardiac output.
mirabegron	An orally bioavailable agonist of the human beta-3 adrenergic receptor (ADRB3), with muscle relaxing, neuroprotective and potential antineoplastic activities. Upon oral administration, mirabegron binds to and activates ADRB3, which leads to smooth muscle relaxation. Mirabegron also restores sympathetic stimulation in mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) niches, inhibits JAK2-mutated hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) expansion and blocks the progression of myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). Lack of sympathetic stimulation of the MSC and HSC niche is associated with the development of MPNs.
adrenergic agonists	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
orciprenaline	A beta-2 adrenergic agonist used in the treatment of ASTHMA and BRONCHIAL SPASM.
xamoterol	A phenoxypropanolamine derivative that is a selective beta-1-adrenergic agonist.
levalbuterol	A short-acting sympathomimetic beta-2 adrenergic receptor agonist with bronchodilator activity. Levalbuterol binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and activates intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels lead to the activation of protein kinase A, which inhibits the phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations, resulting in relaxation of bronchial smooth muscles. The increased cAMP concentrations also inhibit the release of inflammatory mediators, especially from mast cells.
adren agon	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
beta adren recept agon	Drugs that selectively bind to and activate beta-adrenergic receptors.
product containing isoxsuprine	A beta-adrenergic agonist that causes direct relaxation of uterine and vascular smooth muscle. Its vasodilating actions are greater on the arteries supplying skeletal muscle than on those supplying skin. It is used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disease and in premature labor.
oxiphedrin	A drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, heart failure, conduction defects, and myocardial infarction. It is a partial agonist at beta adrenergic receptors and acts as a coronary vasodilator and cardiotonic agent.
tetroquinol	An adrenergic beta-agonist used as a bronchodilator agent in asthma therapy.
oxyphedrin	A drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, heart failure, conduction defects, and myocardial infarction. It is a partial agonist at beta adrenergic receptors and acts as a coronary vasodilator and cardiotonic agent.
product containing clenbuterol	A substituted phenylaminoethanol that has beta-2 adrenomimetic properties at very low doses. It is used as a bronchodilator in asthma.
oxifedrine	A drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, heart failure, conduction defects, and myocardial infarction. It is a partial agonist at beta adrenergic receptors and acts as a coronary vasodilator and cardiotonic agent.
beta blockers	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
alprenolol	One of the ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS used as an antihypertensive, anti-anginal, and anti-arrhythmic agent.
beta blocking agents	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
levobunolol	The L-Isomer of bunolol.
beta adren block agents	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
bupranolol	An adrenergic-beta-2 antagonist that has been used for cardiac arrhythmia, angina pectoris, hypertension, glaucoma, and as an antithrombotic.
beta adren block	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta adrenergic blockers	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
nadolol	A non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with a long half-life, used in cardiovascular disease to treat arrhythmias, angina pectoris, and hypertension. Nadolol is also used for MIGRAINE DISORDERS and for tremor.
beta adrenergic receptor antagonist product	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
oxprenolol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris, arrhythmias, and anxiety.
beta-blocking agent	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
penbutolol	A nonselective beta-blocker used as an antihypertensive and an antianginal agent.
pindolol	A moderately lipophilic beta blocker (ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS). It is non-cardioselective and has intrinsic sympathomimetic actions, but little membrane-stabilizing activity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmocopoeia, 30th ed, p638)
beta-adrenergic blocking agents	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
timolol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist that is similar in action to PROPRANOLOL; the levo-isomer is more active. Timolol has been proposed as an anti-hypertensive, anti-arrhythmic, anti-angina, and anti-glaucoma agent. It is also used in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS and tremor.
metipranolol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist effective for both beta-1 and beta-2 receptors. It is used as an antiarrhythmic, antihypertensive, and antiglaucoma agent.
beta-blocker	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
exaprolol	A lipophilic derivative of the adrenergic blocking agent propranolol with sympatholytic activity. Exaprolol competitively binds to and blocks beta-adrenergic receptors in the heart and vascular smooth muscle, thereby causing negative chronotropic and inotropic effects leading to a reduction in cardiac output.
bunolol	A nonselective beta-adrenoceptor antagonist used in the treatment of glaucoma.
adren beta recept block	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta-adrenoceptor blocking drug	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta-adrenergic blocking agent	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
carteolol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist used as an anti-arrhythmia agent, an anti-angina agent, an antihypertensive agent, and an antiglaucoma agent.
propranolol	A widely used non-cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist. Propranolol has been used for MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; ARRHYTHMIA; ANGINA PECTORIS; HYPERTENSION; HYPERTHYROIDISM; MIGRAINE; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; and ANXIETY but adverse effects instigate replacement by newer drugs.
beta adrenergic blocking agents	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta blocker	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
product containing betaxolol	A cardioselective beta-1-adrenergic antagonist with no partial agonist activity.
beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
butoxamine	A beta-2 selective adrenergic antagonist. It is used primarily in animal and tissue experiments to characterize BETA-2 ANDRENERGIC RECEPTORS.
beta adrenoceptor antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
adrenergic receptor blockaders beta	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta adrenoceptor antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta-adrenergic receptor blockaders	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
propanolol	A widely used non-cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist. Propranolol has been used for MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; ARRHYTHMIA; ANGINA PECTORIS; HYPERTENSION; HYPERTHYROIDISM; MIGRAINE; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; and ANXIETY but adverse effects instigate replacement by newer drugs.
sotalol	An adrenergic beta-antagonist that is used in the treatment of life-threatening arrhythmias.
i cyanopindolol	En starkt selektiv och specifik beta-antagonist som används för att karaktärisera beta-adrenoreceptorer.
recept beta adren	coupled through the G protein Gs to adenylate cyclase such that extracellular stimulation results in increased intracellular cyclic AMP; beta-1 mediates lipolysis and cardiostimulation, beta-2 broncho- and vaso- dilation.
atenolol	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic blocker possessing properties and potency similar to PROPRANOLOL, but without a negative inotropic effect.
beta adrenergic receptor antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
propranololum	A widely used non-cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist. Propranolol has been used for MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION; ARRHYTHMIA; ANGINA PECTORIS; HYPERTENSION; HYPERTHYROIDISM; MIGRAINE; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; and ANXIETY but adverse effects instigate replacement by newer drugs.
beta blocker-containing product	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
product containing metipranolol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist effective for both beta-1 and beta-2 receptors. It is used as an antiarrhythmic, antihypertensive, and antiglaucoma agent.
beta-adrenergic receptor blockader	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
carteolol hydrochloride	A synthetic quinolinone derivative, antihypertensive Carteolol Hydrochloride is a nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent for beta-1 and beta-2 receptors with no membrane-stabilizing activity but moderate intrinsic sympathomimetic effects. It is used for treatment of hypertension and certain arrhythmias, and as an anti-angina and antiglaucoma agent. (NCI04)
levobunolol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of levobunolol, a naphthalenone and non-cardioselective adrenergic beta-receptor antagonist with anti-glaucoma activity. Upon administration in the eye, levobunolol blocks beta-adrenergic receptors, thereby causing vasoconstriction. Levobunolol also decreases ciliary's body production of aqueous humor, leading to a decrease in aqueous humor.
cardiac drug	Agents that affect the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction, blood vessel diameter, or blood volume.
adrenergic antagonists beta	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
nadolol product	A non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with a long half-life, used in cardiovascular disease to treat arrhythmias, angina pectoris, and hypertension. Nadolol is also used for MIGRAINE DISORDERS and for tremor.
beta-adrenergic blockers	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
alprenololum	One of the ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS used as an antihypertensive, anti-anginal, and anti-arrhythmic agent.
beta adren recept block	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta-blockers	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
adrenergic beta antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
adrenergic beta-receptor blockaders	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
alprénolol	One of the ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS used as an antihypertensive, anti-anginal, and anti-arrhythmic agent.
adrenergic beta blockers	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
levobunololum	The L-Isomer of bunolol.
adrenergic beta antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
adren beta antag	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
adrenergic beta receptor blockaders	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
product containing sotalol	An adrenergic beta-antagonist that is used in the treatment of life-threatening arrhythmias.
brimonidine tartrate/ timolol maleate	A pharmaceutical preparation of brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate. The combined ADRENERGIC ALPHA2 RECEPTOR AGONIST and ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONIST activity of these drugs reduce INTRAOCULAR PRESSURE in GLAUCOMA patients.
labetalol product	A salicylamide derivative that is a non-cardioselective blocker of BETA-ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and ALPHA-1 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS.
adrenergic beta-blockers	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
sotalol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of sotalol, an ethanolamine derivative with Class III antiarrhythmic and antihypertensive properties. Sotalol hydrochloride is a nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor and potassium channel antagonist. In the heart, this agent inhibits chronotropic and inotropic effects thereby slowing the heart rate and decreasing myocardial contractility. This agent also reduces sinus rate, slows conduction in the atria and in the atrioventricular (AV) node and increases the functional refractory period of the AV node. In the lungs, sotalol inhibits vasodilation and bronchodilation. In addition, this agent inhibits renin release.
beta-adrenergic blocker	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
bisoprolol	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic blocker. It is effective in the management of HYPERTENSION and ANGINA PECTORIS.
nebivolol	A beta-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist with antihypertensive and vasodilatory activity. Nebivolol binds to and blocks the beta-1 adrenergic receptors in the heart, thereby decreasing cardiac contractility and rate. This leads to a reduction in cardiac output and lowers blood pressure. In addition, nebivolol potentiates nitric oxide (NO), thereby relaxing vascular smooth muscle and exerting a vasodilatory effect.
timolol maleate	The maleate salt form of timolol, a propanolamine derivative and a non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with antihypertensive property. Timolol competitively binds to beta-1-adrenergic receptors in the heart and vascular smooth muscle and beta-2-receptors in the bronchial and vascular smooth muscle, resulting in a decrease in beta-adrenergic stimulation. Beta-1-receptor blockade results in a decrease in resting and exercise heart rate and cardiac output, a decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and, possibly, a reduction in reflex orthostatic hypotension. Beta-2-blockade results in an increase in peripheral vascular resistance. The ultimate results include vasodilation, and negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. In addition, timolol reduces intra-ocular pressure possibly by decreasing aqueous humor production by reduction of blood flow to the ciliary processes and cAMP synthesis.
propranolol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of propranolol, a synthetic beta-adrenergic receptor blocker with antianginal, antiarrhythmic, and antihypertensive properties. Propranolol competitively antagonizes beta-adrenergic receptors, thereby inhibiting beta-adrenergic reactions, such as vasodilation, and negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29382" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29382" NCI Thesaurus)
beta adrenergic antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta adrenergic blocker	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
metoprolol tartrate	The tartrate salt form of metoprolol, a cardioselective competitive beta-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist with antihypertensive properties and devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Metoprolol tartrate antagonizes beta 1-adrenergic receptors in the myocardium, thereby reducing the rate and force of myocardial contraction, and consequently a diminished cardiac output. This agent may also reduce the secretion of renin with subsequent reduction in levels of angiotensin II thus decreasing sympathetic activation, including vasoconstriction, aldosterone secretion.
metoprolol succinate	The succinate salt form of metoprolol, a cardioselective competitive beta-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist with antihypertensive properties and devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Metoprolol succinate antagonizes beta 1-adrenergic receptors in the myocardium, thereby reducing the rate and force of myocardial contraction, and consequently a diminished cardiac output. This agent may also reduce the secretion of renin with subsequent reduction in levels of angiotensin II thus decreasing sympathetic activation, including vasoconstriction, aldosterone secretion.
carvedilol phosphate	A drug used to treat high blood pressure and certain heart problems. It is also being studied in the prevention and treatment of side effects caused by some anticancer drugs. Carvedilol phosphate blocks certain receptors on nerve cells and causes blood vessels to dilate (widen). It is a type of antihypertensive agent and a type of antianginal agent.
hypotensive agent	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
betaxolol	A cardioselective beta-1-adrenergic antagonist with no partial agonist activity.
cartéolol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist used as an anti-arrhythmia agent, an anti-angina agent, an antihypertensive agent, and an antiglaucoma agent.
metoprolol	A selective adrenergic beta-1 blocking agent that is commonly used to treat ANGINA PECTORIS; HYPERTENSION; and CARDIAC ARRHYTHMIAS.
metipranolol product	A beta-adrenergic antagonist effective for both beta-1 and beta-2 receptors. It is used as an antiarrhythmic, antihypertensive, and antiglaucoma agent.
product containing bisoprolol	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic blocker. It is effective in the management of HYPERTENSION and ANGINA PECTORIS.
beta blockers nebivolol	A beta-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist with antihypertensive and vasodilatory activity. Nebivolol binds to and blocks the beta-1 adrenergic receptors in the heart, thereby decreasing cardiac contractility and rate. This leads to a reduction in cardiac output and lowers blood pressure. In addition, nebivolol potentiates nitric oxide (NO), thereby relaxing vascular smooth muscle and exerting a vasodilatory effect.
beta adrenergic blocking agent	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta adrenergic receptor blockaders	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
practolol	A beta-1 adrenergic antagonist that has been used in the emergency treatment of CARDIAC ARRYTHMIAS.
celiprolol	A cardioselective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist that has intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. It is used in the management of ANGINA PECTORIS and HYPERTENSION.
product containing oxprenolol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris, arrhythmias, and anxiety.
carvedilolum	A carbazole and propanol derivative that acts as a non-cardioselective beta blocker and vasodilator. It has blocking activity for ALPHA 1 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and, at higher doses, may function as a blocker of CALCIUM CHANNELS; it also has antioxidant properties. Carvedilol is used in the treatment of HYPERTENSION; ANGINA PECTORIS; and HEART FAILURE. It can also reduce the risk of death following MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
esmolol	The hydrochloride salt form of esmolol, a short, rapid-acting, selective beta-adrenergic receptor blocker, devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, and with anti-arrhythmic, antihypertensive and potential analgesic activities. Upon intravenous administration, esmolol binds to and blocks the beta-1 receptor in the myocardium thereby preventing the action of epinephrine and norepinephrine. This leads to a reduction in the force and rate of cardiac contractions and thereby preventing tachycardia, arrythmias and/or hypertension. At higher doses, esmolol also blocks beta-2 receptors located in bronchial and vascular smooth muscle, thereby leading to smooth muscle relaxation. In addition, esmolol exerts a peripheral analgesic effect and intraoperative use of this agent may decrease the amount of opioid administration postoperatively. As the ester moiety in esmolol is rapidly hydrolyzed byplasma esterases, this agent has a very short half-life. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C72617" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C72617" NCI Thesaurus)
penbutolol sulfate	The sulfate salt form of penbutolol, a lipophilic, nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with anti-anginal and antihypertensive activities. Penbutolol competitively binds to and blocks beta-1 adrenergic receptors in the heart, thereby decreasing cardiac contractility and rate. This leads to a reduction in cardiac output and lowers blood pressure. In addition, bisoprolol prevents the release of renin, a hormone secreted by the kidneys that causes constriction of blood vessels.
betaxolol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of betaxolol, a beta-1-selective adrenergic receptor antagonist without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Betaxolol hydrochloride acts on the heart and circulatory system and decreases cardiac contractility and rate, thereby reducing cardiac output. When applied topically in the eye, it lowers intraocular pressure by reducing aqueous humor secretion.
labetalol hcl	The hydrochloride form of labetalol, a third generation selective alpha-1-adrenergic antagonist and non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with vasodilatory and antihypertensive properties. Labetalol competitively binds to alpha-1-adrenergic receptors in vascular smooth muscle, thereby inhibiting the adrenergic stimulation of endothelial cell function and vasoconstriction in peripheral blood vessels. This agent also binds to beta-receptors in the bronchial and vascular smooth muscle, resulting in a decrease in adrenergic stimulation. The result is a decrease in resting and exercise heart rates, cardiac output, and in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, thereby resulting in vasodilation, and negative chronotropic and inotropic cardiac effects.
beta blocker product	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
beta adrenergic antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
metoprolol product	A selective adrenergic beta-1 blocking agent that is commonly used to treat ANGINA PECTORIS; HYPERTENSION; and CARDIAC ARRHYTHMIAS.
product containing pindolol	A moderately lipophilic beta blocker (ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS). It is non-cardioselective and has intrinsic sympathomimetic actions, but little membrane-stabilizing activity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmocopoeia, 30th ed, p638)
trimepranol	A beta-adrenergic antagonist effective for both beta-1 and beta-2 receptors. It is used as an antiarrhythmic, antihypertensive, and antiglaucoma agent.
timolol maleate [eye]	The maleate salt form of timolol, a propanolamine derivative and a non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with antihypertensive property. Timolol competitively binds to beta-1-adrenergic receptors in the heart and vascular smooth muscle and beta-2-receptors in the bronchial and vascular smooth muscle, resulting in a decrease in beta-adrenergic stimulation. Beta-1-receptor blockade results in a decrease in resting and exercise heart rate and cardiac output, a decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and, possibly, a reduction in reflex orthostatic hypotension. Beta-2-blockade results in an increase in peripheral vascular resistance. The ultimate results include vasodilation, and negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. In addition, timolol reduces intra-ocular pressure possibly by decreasing aqueous humor production by reduction of blood flow to the ciliary processes and cAMP synthesis.
penbutolol sulfate [ingredient]	The sulfate salt form of penbutolol, a lipophilic, nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with anti-anginal and antihypertensive activities. Penbutolol competitively binds to and blocks beta-1 adrenergic receptors in the heart, thereby decreasing cardiac contractility and rate. This leads to a reduction in cardiac output and lowers blood pressure. In addition, bisoprolol prevents the release of renin, a hormone secreted by the kidneys that causes constriction of blood vessels.
propranolol hcl	The hydrochloride salt of propranolol, a synthetic beta-adrenergic receptor blocker with antianginal, antiarrhythmic, and antihypertensive properties. Propranolol competitively antagonizes beta-adrenergic receptors, thereby inhibiting beta-adrenergic reactions, such as vasodilation, and negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29382" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29382" NCI Thesaurus)
metoprolol fumarate	The fumarate salt form of metoprolol, a cardioselective competitive beta-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist with antihypertensive properties and devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Metoprolol antagonizes beta 1-adrenergic receptors in the myocardium, thereby reducing the rate and force of myocardial contraction, and consequently a diminished cardiac output. This agent may also reduce the secretion of renin with subsequent reduction in levels of angiotensin II thereby preventing vasoconstriction and aldosterone secretion.
esmolol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of esmolol, a short and rapid-acting beta adrenergic antagonist belonging to the class II anti-arrhythmic drugs and devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Esmolol hydrochloride competitively blocks beta-1 adrenergic receptors in cardiac muscle and reduces the contractility and cardiac rate of heart muscle, thereby decreasing cardiac output and myocardial oxygen demands. This agent also decreases sympathetic output centrally and blocks renin secretion. At higher doses, esmolol hydrochloride also blocks beta-2 receptors located in bronchial and vascular smooth muscle, thereby leading to smooth muscle relaxation.
l-bunolol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of levobunolol, a naphthalenone and non-cardioselective adrenergic beta-receptor antagonist with anti-glaucoma activity. Upon administration in the eye, levobunolol blocks beta-adrenergic receptors, thereby causing vasoconstriction. Levobunolol also decreases ciliary's body production of aqueous humor, leading to a decrease in aqueous humor.
levobetaxolol	The S-isomer of betaxolol, a selective beta-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist with anti-glaucoma activity and devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. When applied topically in the eye, levobetaxolol reduces aqueous humor secretion and lowers the intraocular pressure (IOP).
adrenergic beta-receptor blockader	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
recept antag adren	group of drugs that bind to but do not activate adrenergic receptors; they block the actions of the endogenous adrenergic transmitters epinepherine and norepinepherine.
sotalolo	An adrenergic beta-antagonist that is used in the treatment of life-threatening arrhythmias.
beta adrenergic receptor blockader	Drugs that bind to but do not activate beta-adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of beta-adrenergic agonists. Adrenergic beta-antagonists are used for treatment of hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, angina pectoris, glaucoma, migraine headaches, and anxiety.
brimonidine tartrate timolol maleate	A pharmaceutical preparation of brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate. The combined ADRENERGIC ALPHA2 RECEPTOR AGONIST and ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONIST activity of these drugs reduce INTRAOCULAR PRESSURE in GLAUCOMA patients.
sympathetic fiber	Nerve fibers liberating catecholamines at a synapse after an impulse.
postganglionic sympathetic fiber	Nerve fibers which project from sympathetic ganglia to synapses on target organs. Sympathetic postganglionic fibers use norepinephrine as transmitter, except for those innervating eccrine sweat glands (and possibly some blood vessels) which use acetylcholine. They may also release peptide cotransmitters.
adrenergic receptor agonist product	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
adrenergic receptor	Cell-surface proteins that bind epinephrine and/or norepinephrine with high affinity and trigger intracellular changes. The two major classes of adrenergic receptors, alpha and beta, were originally discriminated based on their cellular actions but now are distinguished by their relative affinity for characteristic synthetic ligands. Adrenergic receptors may also be classified according to the subtypes of G-proteins with which they bind; this scheme does not respect the alpha-beta distinction.
adren ag	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
agonists adrenergic	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
nordefrin	A norepinephrine derivative used as a vasoconstrictor agent.
adrenoreceptor stimulant	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
epinephrine acid tartrate	The bitartrate salt form of epinephrine, a direct-acting sympathomimetic amine with bronchodilator and vasoconstricting activity. Epinephrine bitartrate acts on both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors. By stimulating alpha adrenergic receptors locally, this agent causes vasoconstriction and reduces vascular blood flow. Administered in the conjunctiva, epinephrine bitartrate induces vasoconstriction and decreases the production of aqueous humor mediated through alpha-adrenergic receptors. Through its beta-stimulating actions, this agent relaxes bronchial smooth muscle and causes bronchodilation.
ergotamine product	A vasoconstrictor found in ergot of Central Europe. It is a serotonin agonist that has been used as an oxytocic agent and in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS.
product containing adrenergic receptor agonist	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
isopropyl noradrenaline	Isopropyl analog of EPINEPHRINE; beta-sympathomimetic that acts on the heart, bronchi, skeletal muscle, alimentary tract, etc. It is used mainly as bronchodilator and heart stimulant.
adren recept agon	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
apraclonidine	A clonidine derivative with selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonistic activity. Upon ocular administration, apraclonidine enhances aqueous humor uveoscleral outflow and decreases aqueous production by vasoconstriction. This may decrease intraocular pressure (IOP).
isoprenaline sulphate	The sulfate salt form of isoproterenol, a beta-adrenergic receptor agonist with bronchodilator activity. Isoproterenol binds to beta-2 adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle, thereby activating intracellular adenyl cyclase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, improve mucociliary clearance and inhibit the release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells.
adrenomimetic	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
brimonidine	An imidazole derivative and a selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist. Upon ocular administration, brimonidine acts on the blood vessels causing them to constrict which leads to a decrease in the production of aqueous humor. Brimonidine also enhances the uveoscleral outflow of aqueous humor. This reduces intraocular pressure.
adrenomimetics	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
dexmedetomidine	An imidazole derivate and active d-isomer of medetomidine with analgesic, anxiolytic and sedative properties. Dexmedetomidine selectively binds to presynaptic alpha-2 adrenoceptors located in the brain, thereby inhibiting the release of norepinephrine from synaptic vesicles. This leads to an inhibition of postsynaptic activation of adrenoceptors, which inhibit sympathetic activity, thereby leading to sedation and anxiolysis. The analgesic effect of this agent is mediated by binding to alpha-2 adrenoceptors in the spinal cord.
apraclonidine hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of apraclonidine, a clonidine derivative with selective alpha-2-adrenergic agonistic property. When administered directly to eyes, apraclonidine hydrochloride enhances aqueous humor outflow and decreases aqueous production by vasoconstriction. It is used mostly in ophthalmic preparations for decreasing intraocular pressure.
product containing isoproterenol	Isopropyl analog of EPINEPHRINE; beta-sympathomimetic that acts on the heart, bronchi, skeletal muscle, alimentary tract, etc. It is used mainly as bronchodilator and heart stimulant.
adrenergic receptor agonists	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
dexmédétomidine	An imidazole derivate and active d-isomer of medetomidine with analgesic, anxiolytic and sedative properties. Dexmedetomidine selectively binds to presynaptic alpha-2 adrenoceptors located in the brain, thereby inhibiting the release of norepinephrine from synaptic vesicles. This leads to an inhibition of postsynaptic activation of adrenoceptors, which inhibit sympathetic activity, thereby leading to sedation and anxiolysis. The analgesic effect of this agent is mediated by binding to alpha-2 adrenoceptors in the spinal cord.
l-nordefrin	The levoisomer of nordefrin, a synthetic catecholamine and norepinephrine derivative with sympathomimetic and antihypertensive effects. Levonordefrin's antihypertensive effect is exerted through activation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in the cardiovascular control center of the CNS thereby suppressing the sympathetic output from the brain and subsequently lowering blood pressure. Levonordefrin binds to and activates peripheral alpha 2- adrenergic receptors, thereby causing vasoconstriction.
recept agon adren	Drugs that bind to and activate adrenergic receptors.
ergotamine	A vasoconstrictor found in ergot of Central Europe. It is a serotonin agonist that has been used as an oxytocic agent and in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS.
levarterenol	Precursor of epinephrine that is secreted by the ADRENAL MEDULLA and is a widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter. Norepinephrine is the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers, and of the diffuse projection system in the brain that arises from the LOCUS CERULEUS. It is also found in plants and is used pharmacologically as a sympathomimetic.
dexmedetomidina	An imidazole derivate and active d-isomer of medetomidine with analgesic, anxiolytic and sedative properties. Dexmedetomidine selectively binds to presynaptic alpha-2 adrenoceptors located in the brain, thereby inhibiting the release of norepinephrine from synaptic vesicles. This leads to an inhibition of postsynaptic activation of adrenoceptors, which inhibit sympathetic activity, thereby leading to sedation and anxiolysis. The analgesic effect of this agent is mediated by binding to alpha-2 adrenoceptors in the spinal cord.
adrenochrome - chemical	Pigment obtained by the oxidation of epinephrine.
adrenochrome	Pigment obtained by the oxidation of epinephrine.
pigment	something that gives color
corticotropin	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
hormones	Chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various ENDOCRINE GLANDS and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects.
hormones preparation	Chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various ENDOCRINE GLANDS and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects.
anterior pituitary	Hormones secreted by the adenohypophysis (PITUITARY GLAND, ANTERIOR). Structurally, they include polypeptide, protein, and glycoprotein molecules.
marker biochem tumor	Molecular products metabolized and secreted by neoplastic tissue and characterized biochemically in cells or BODY FLUIDS. They are indicators of tumor stage and grade as well as useful for monitoring responses to treatment and predicting recurrence. Many chemical groups are represented including HORMONES; ANTIGENS; amino and NUCLEIC ACIDS; ENZYMES; POLYAMINES; and specific CELL MEMBRANE PROTEINS and LIPIDS.
corticotrophin	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
pituitary hormone	Hormones secreted by the PITUITARY GLAND including those from the anterior lobe (adenohypophysis), the posterior lobe (neurohypophysis), and the ill-defined intermediate lobe. Structurally, they include small peptides, proteins, and glycoproteins. They are under the regulation of neural signals (NEUROTRANSMITTERS) or neuroendocrine signals (HYPOTHALAMIC HORMONES) from the hypothalamus as well as feedback from their targets such as ADRENAL CORTEX HORMONES; ANDROGENS; ESTROGENS.
corticotropic hormone	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
anterior pituitary hormones	Hormones secreted by the adenohypophysis (PITUITARY GLAND, ANTERIOR). Structurally, they include polypeptide, protein, and glycoprotein molecules.
recombinant corticotropin	A recombinant peptide hormone chemically identical to or similar to human polypeptide hormone corticotropin (adrenocorticotropic hormone; ACTH). Secreted by the anterior pituitary gland, circulating ACTH stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete adrenocortical steroids, especially cortisone, which elevate blood pressure in response to stress. With normally functioning adrenal glands, recombinant corticotropin could be used to achieve pharmacologic effects similar to those from cortisone administration.
hormone drug	Chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various ENDOCRINE GLANDS and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects.
hormone	Chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various ENDOCRINE GLANDS and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects.
tetracosactide	A synthetic peptide that is identical to the 24-amino acid segment at the N-terminal of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE. ACTH (1-24), a segment similar in all species, contains the biological activity that stimulates production of CORTICOSTEROIDS in the ADRENAL CORTEX.
product containing anterior pituitary hormone	Hormones secreted by the adenohypophysis (PITUITARY GLAND, ANTERIOR). Structurally, they include polypeptide, protein, and glycoprotein molecules.
corticotropin preparation	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
therapeutic acth	A recombinant peptide hormone chemically identical to or similar to human polypeptide hormone corticotropin (adrenocorticotropic hormone; ACTH). Secreted by the anterior pituitary gland, circulating ACTH stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete adrenocortical steroids, especially cortisone, which elevate blood pressure in response to stress. With normally functioning adrenal glands, recombinant corticotropin could be used to achieve pharmacologic effects similar to those from cortisone administration.
assay of acth	A measurement of the adrenocorticotropic hormone in a biological specimen.
corticotropins	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
pituitary hormones	Hormones secreted by the PITUITARY GLAND including those from the anterior lobe (adenohypophysis), the posterior lobe (neurohypophysis), and the ill-defined intermediate lobe. Structurally, they include small peptides, proteins, and glycoproteins. They are under the regulation of neural signals (NEUROTRANSMITTERS) or neuroendocrine signals (HYPOTHALAMIC HORMONES) from the hypothalamus as well as feedback from their targets such as ADRENAL CORTEX HORMONES; ANDROGENS; ESTROGENS.
acth preparation	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
peptide	Members of the class of compounds composed of AMINO ACIDS joined together by peptide bonds between adjacent amino acids into linear, branched or cyclical structures. OLIGOPEPTIDES are composed of approximately 2-12 amino acids. Polypeptides are composed of approximately 13 or more amino acids. PROTEINS are considered to be larger versions of peptides that can form into complex structures such as ENZYMES and RECEPTORS.
inflammatory rheumatism	Historically, a heterogeneous group of acute and chronic diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, progressive systemic sclerosis, dermatomyositis, etc. This classification was based on the notion that "collagen" was equivalent to "connective tissue", but with the present recognition of the different types of collagen and the aggregates derived from them as distinct entities, the term "collagen diseases" now pertains exclusively to those inherited conditions in which the primary defect is at the gene level and affects collagen biosynthesis, post-translational modification, or extracellular processing directly. (From Cecil Textbook of Medicine, 19th ed, p1494)
corticotrophins	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
generalized multiple sclerosis	An autoimmune disorder mainly affecting young adults and characterized by destruction of myelin in the central nervous system. Pathologic findings include multiple sharply demarcated areas of demyelination throughout the white matter of the central nervous system. Clinical manifestations include visual loss, extra-ocular movement disorders, paresthesias, loss of sensation, weakness, dysarthria, spasticity, ataxia, and bladder dysfunction. The usual pattern is one of recurrent attacks followed by partial recovery (see MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS, RELAPSING-REMITTING), but acute fulminating and chronic progressive forms (see MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS, CHRONIC PROGRESSIVE) also occur. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p903)
fungal infection	Diseases caused by FUNGI.
optic nerve inflammation	Inflammation of the optic nerve. Commonly associated conditions include autoimmune disorders such as MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS, infections, and granulomatous diseases. Clinical features include retro-orbital pain that is aggravated by eye movement, loss of color vision, and contrast sensitivity that may progress to severe visual loss, an afferent pupillary defect (Marcus-Gunn pupil), and in some instances optic disc hyperemia and swelling. Inflammation may occur in the portion of the nerve within the globe (neuropapillitis or anterior optic neuritis) or the portion behind the globe (retrobulbar neuritis or posterior optic neuritis).
serum sickness	Immune complex disease caused by the administration of foreign serum or serum proteins and characterized by fever, lymphadenopathy, arthralgia, and urticaria. When they are complexed to protein carriers, some drugs can also cause serum sickness when they act as haptens inducing antibody responses.
acth hormone	pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of adrenal cortical steroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
endocrine substance preparation	Chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various ENDOCRINE GLANDS and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects.
adrenodoxin	An iron-sulfur protein which serves as an electron carrier in enzymatic steroid hydroxylation reactions in adrenal cortex mitochondria. The electron transport system which catalyzes this reaction consists of adrenodoxin reductase, NADP, adrenodoxin, and cytochrome P-450.
adrenal ferredoxin	iron-sulfur protein which serves as an electron carrier in enzymatic steroid hydroxylation reactions in adrenal cortex mitochondria.
adsorption	The adhesion of gases, liquids, or dissolved solids onto a surface. It includes adsorptive phenomena of bacteria and viruses onto surfaces as well. ABSORPTION into the substance may follow but not necessarily.
adults	A person having attained full growth or maturity. Adults are of 19 through 44 years of age. For a person between 19 and 24 years of age, YOUNG ADULT is available.
young adult	A person between 19 and 24 years of age.
advance directives	Declarations by patients, made in advance of a situation in which they may be incompetent to decide about their own care, stating their treatment preferences or authorizing a third party to make decisions for them. (Bioethics Thesaurus)
living wills	Written, witnessed declarations in which persons request that if they become disabled beyond reasonable expectation of recovery, they be allowed to die rather than be kept alive by extraordinary means. (Bioethics Thesaurus)
do not resuscitate orders	A type of advance directive in which a person states that healthcare providers should not perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (restarting the heart) if his or her heart or breathing stops.
proxy	A type of directive that gives a person the authority to make decisions for or provide responses on behalf of another individual.
advance directive	Declarations by patients, made in advance of a situation in which they may be incompetent to decide about their own care, stating their treatment preferences or authorizing a third party to make decisions for them. (Bioethics Thesaurus)
document type	A physical object, or electronic counterpart, that is characterized by containing writing which is meant to be human-readable.
hospice care	Specialized health care, supportive in nature, provided to a dying person. A holistic approach is often taken, providing patients and their families with legal, financial, emotional, or spiritual counseling in addition to meeting patients' immediate physical needs. Care may be provided in the home, in the hospital, in specialized facilities (HOSPICES), or in specially designated areas of long-term care facilities. The concept also includes bereavement care for the family. (From Dictionary of Health Services Management, 2d ed)
family issues	<p>There are many kinds of families. Some have two parents, while others have a single parent. Sometimes there is no parent and grandparents raise grandchildren. Some children live in foster families, adoptive families, or in stepfamilies.</p> <p>Families are much more than groups of people who share the same genes or the same address. They should be a source of love and support. This does not mean that everyone gets along all the time. Conflicts are a part of family life. Many things can lead to conflict, such as illness, disability, addiction, job loss, school problems, and marital issues. Listening to each other and working to resolve conflicts are important in strengthening the family.</p>
older adult health	<p>People in the U.S. are living longer than ever before. Many older adults live active and healthy lives. But there's no getting around one thing: as we age, our bodies and minds change. You need to know what to expect. Some changes may just be part of normal aging, while others may be a warning sign of a medical problem. It is important to know the difference, and to let your health care provider know if you have any concerns.</p> <p>Having a <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/healthyaging.html">healthy lifestyle</a> can help you to deal with normal aging changes and make the most of your life. This includes <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/nutritionforolderadults.html">healthy eating</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/exerciseforolderadults.html">regular physical activity</a>, and making <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/olderadultmentalhealth.html">mental health</a> a priority.</p>
end of life issues	<p>Planning for the end of life can be difficult. But by deciding what end-of-life care best suits your needs when you are healthy, you can help those close to you make the right choices when the time comes.</p> <p>End-of-life planning usually includes making choices about the following:</p> <ul> <li>The goals of care (for example, whether to use certain medicines during the last days of life)</li> <li>Where you want to spend your final days</li> <li>Which treatments for end-of-life care you wish to receive</li> <li>What type of <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/palliativecare.html">palliative care</a> and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/hospicecare.html">hospice care</a> you wish to receive</li> </ul> <p><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/advancedirectives.html">Advance directives</a> can help make your wishes clear to your family and health care providers.</p>
aspects of adverse effects	Užij u léků, chemických látek, biologických přípravků, fyzikálních agens nebo u průmyslových výrobků při normálním užití za účelem diagnostiky, terapie, prevence nebo anestézie. Užij také pro nežádoucí účinky nebo komplikace při výkonech diagnostických, terapeutických, profylaktických, anestetických, chirurgických a jiných.
dysmorphism due to warfarin	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
acitretin embryopathy	A rare teratogenic disorder due to acitretin exposure during the first trimester of pregnancy, carrying a risk of fetal malformations of approximately 20%, including central nervous system, craniofacial, ear, thymic, cardiac and limb anomalies.
advertising	Works about the act or practice of calling public attention to a product, service, need, etc., especially by paid announcements in newspapers, magazines, on radio, or on television. (Random House Unabridged Dictionary, 2d ed)
advertisement	Offentlig publiserte notiser, vanligvis i form av betalte kunngjøringer i massemediene, slik som aviser, tidsskrifter eller på oppslagstavler. Hit regnes også film- og TV-reklame og annonsering i elektroniske medier.
aedes <genus>	genus of mosquitoes; are vectors for many diseases including yellow fever, dengue, equine encephalomyelitis, and filariasis.
mosquitoes	family of the order Diptera that comprises the mosquitoes; recognized by the characteristic wing venation, the scales along the wing veins, and the long proboscis; many species are of particular medical importance.
aequorin	A photoprotein isolated from the bioluminescent jellyfish Aequorea. It emits visible light by an intramolecular reaction when a trace amount of calcium ion is added. The light-emitting moiety in the bioluminescence reaction is believed to be 2-amino-3-benzyl-5-(p-hydroxyphenyl)pyrazine (AF-350).
luminescent agents	Ämnen som t ex luminiscerande proteiner som alstrar eller utsänder synligt ljus (fysisk luminiscens).
calcium indicator	nontoxic dyes or fluors which undergo spectral changes upon calcium ion binding and can be loaded into cells to visualize calcium fluxes.
aequorine	A photoprotein isolated from the bioluminescent jellyfish Aequorea. It emits visible light by an intramolecular reaction when a trace amount of calcium ion is added. The light-emitting moiety in the bioluminescence reaction is believed to be 2-amino-3-benzyl-5-(p-hydroxyphenyl)pyrazine (AF-350).
aequorins	A photoprotein isolated from the bioluminescent jellyfish Aequorea. It emits visible light by an intramolecular reaction when a trace amount of calcium ion is added. The light-emitting moiety in the bioluminescence reaction is believed to be 2-amino-3-benzyl-5-(p-hydroxyphenyl)pyrazine (AF-350).
hyalococcus pneumoniae	gram negative, non motile, capsulated, gas producing rods found widely in nature and associated with urinary and respiratory infections in humans.
aerogenes enterobacter	Gram-negative, capsulated, gas-producing rods found widely in nature. Both motile and non-motile strains exist. The species is closely related to KLEBSIELLA PNEUMONIAE and is frequently associated with nosocomial infections
klebsiella pneumoniae	gram negative, non motile, capsulated, gas producing rods found widely in nature and associated with urinary and respiratory infections in humans.
microorg	Microorganisms, bacteria, fungi and other organisms.
bacillus mucosus azaenae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Klebsiella ozaenae.
friedlander's bacillus	gram negative, non motile, capsulated, gas producing rods found widely in nature and associated with urinary and respiratory infections in humans.
esbl klebsiella pneumoniae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Klebsiella pneumoniae and produces extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL).
klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. rhinoscleromatis	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Klebsiella rhinoscleromatis.
klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. ozaenae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Klebsiella ozaenae.
aerobics exercise	exercise designed to improve an individual's cardiovascular condition.
exercise therapy	A regimen or plan of physical activities designed and prescribed for specific therapeutic goals. Its purpose is to restore normal musculoskeletal function or to reduce pain caused by diseases or injuries.
aerobic exercise	exercise designed to improve an individual's cardiovascular condition.
physical exercise	Physical activity which is usually regular and done with the intention of improving or maintaining PHYSICAL FITNESS or HEALTH. Contrast with PHYSICAL EXERTION which is concerned largely with the physiologic and metabolic response to energy expenditure.
aerobiosis	Life or metabolic reactions occurring in an environment containing oxygen.
cell respiration	The metabolic process of all living cells (animal and plant) in which oxygen is used to provide a source of energy for the cell.
aerococcus	A genus of gram-positive cocci in the family AEROCOCCACEAE, occurring as airborne saprophytes.
aerococcus viridans	A species of facultatively anaerobic, Gram positive, cocci shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Firmicutes. This bacteria is catalase negative, alpha hemolytic, produces acid from maltose, lactose, sucrose and trehalose, and produces beta glucuronidase. A. viridans is rarely pathogenic in humans but may be associated with urinary tract infections and endocarditis in immunocompromised patients.
aerococcus urinae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aerococcus urinae.
gaffkya species	A genus of gram-positive cocci in the family AEROCOCCACEAE, occurring as airborne saprophytes.
pediococcus homari	A species of facultatively anaerobic, Gram positive, cocci shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Firmicutes. This bacteria is catalase negative, alpha hemolytic, produces acid from maltose, lactose, sucrose and trehalose, and produces beta glucuronidase. A. viridans is rarely pathogenic in humans but may be associated with urinary tract infections and endocarditis in immunocompromised patients.
aerococcus sanguinicola	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aerococcus sanguinicola.
aeromonas	A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that occurs singly, in pairs, or in short chains. Its organisms are found in fresh water and sewage and are pathogenic to humans, frogs, and fish.
vibrionaceae	anaerobic gram negative straight or curved rods; primarily aquatic; several species are pathogenic for man, fish, eels, and frogs.
aeromonas jandaei	A species of facultatively anaerobic, Gram negative, rod shaped bacteria assigned to the phylum Proteobacteria. This bacteria is oxidase positive, does not hydrolyze esculin, produces gas from glucose and produces indole and mannitol. A. jandaei is an opportunistic pathogen found in soil and aquatic environments.
aeromonas schubertii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aeromonas schubertii.
genus aeromonas	A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that occurs singly, in pairs, or in short chains. Its organisms are found in fresh water and sewage and are pathogenic to humans, frogs, and fish.
proteus ichthyosmius	A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that may be pathogenic for frogs, fish, and mammals, including man. In humans, cellulitis and diarrhea can result from infection with this organism.
aeromonas species	A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that occurs singly, in pairs, or in short chains. Its organisms are found in fresh water and sewage and are pathogenic to humans, frogs, and fish.
aeromonas hydrophila	A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that may be pathogenic for frogs, fish, and mammals, including man. In humans, cellulitis and diarrhea can result from infection with this organism.
aeromonas caviae [ambiguous]	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aeromonas punctata.
aeromonas punctata subsp. punctata	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aeromonas punctata.
aeromonas punctata subsp caviae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aeromonas punctata.
fermentative gram-negative rod	Any rod shaped, anaerobic bacteria that can convert carbohydrates into acids and alcohols and has a cell wall contains low levels of peptidoglycan and stains pink with the Gram staining technique.
aeromonas salmonicida	Druh gramnegativní bakterie čeledi Aeromonadaceae, která je striktně parazitická a často patogenní. Způsobuje furunkulózu lososovitých ryb a ulcerativní onemocnění karasů zlatých.
aeromona	A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that occurs singly, in pairs, or in short chains. Its organisms are found in fresh water and sewage and are pathogenic to humans, frogs, and fish.
aeromonas dourgesi anaerogene	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aeromonas punctata.
aeromonas caviae	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Aeromonas punctata.
aeromonadaceae	Čeleď gramnegativních, fakultativně anaerobních bakterií. Tyto organismy se běžně vyskytují v sladkých a brakických vodách a mohou způsobovat gastrointestinální onemocnění.
psychogenic aerophagy	Spasmodic swallowing of air.
air swallowing	Spasmodic swallowing of air.
aerophagia	Spasmodic swallowing of air.
aerosols	suspension of fine solid or liquid particles in gas; a substance dispensed from a pressurized container; includes the container and process used to dispense the aerosol.
drug aerosol	Colloids with a gaseous dispersing phase and either liquid (fog) or solid (smoke) dispersed phase; used in fumigation or in inhalation therapy; may contain propellant agents.
polymyxin b sulfate	The sulfate salt form of polymyxin B, a mixture of the polypeptides polymyxins B1 and B2, both obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains, with antimicrobial activity. Polymyxin B exerts its antimicrobial effect through its cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Specifically, this antibiotic binds to the negatively charged site in the lipopolysaccharide layer of the bacterial cell membrane via electrostatic affinity with the positively charged amino groups in the cyclic peptide portion. Subsequently, the fatty acid portion of polymyxin B dissolves in the hydrophobic region of the bacterial cell membrane. This results in an alteration in cell membrane structure, disruption of cell wall integrity and an increase in permeability for water and molecules. This will eventually lead to bacterial cell death.
b polymyxin	A mixture of polymyxins B1 and B2, obtained from BACILLUS POLYMYXA strains. They are basic polypeptides of about eight amino acids and have cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Polymyxin B is used for treatment of infections with gram-negative bacteria, but may be neurotoxic and nephrotoxic.
polymyxin b	A mixture of polymyxins B1 and B2, obtained from BACILLUS POLYMYXA strains. They are basic polypeptides of about eight amino acids and have cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Polymyxin B is used for treatment of infections with gram-negative bacteria, but may be neurotoxic and nephrotoxic.
polymyxin b sulph [systemic]	The sulfate salt form of polymyxin B, a mixture of the polypeptides polymyxins B1 and B2, both obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains, with antimicrobial activity. Polymyxin B exerts its antimicrobial effect through its cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Specifically, this antibiotic binds to the negatively charged site in the lipopolysaccharide layer of the bacterial cell membrane via electrostatic affinity with the positively charged amino groups in the cyclic peptide portion. Subsequently, the fatty acid portion of polymyxin B dissolves in the hydrophobic region of the bacterial cell membrane. This results in an alteration in cell membrane structure, disruption of cell wall integrity and an increase in permeability for water and molecules. This will eventually lead to bacterial cell death.
polymyxin	Basic lipopeptide antibiotic group obtained from Bacillus polymyxa. They affect the cell membrane by detergent action and may cause neuromuscular and kidney damage. At least eleven different members of the polymyxin group have been identified, each designated by a letter.
polymyxin b sulphate	The sulfate salt form of polymyxin B, a mixture of the polypeptides polymyxins B1 and B2, both obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains, with antimicrobial activity. Polymyxin B exerts its antimicrobial effect through its cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Specifically, this antibiotic binds to the negatively charged site in the lipopolysaccharide layer of the bacterial cell membrane via electrostatic affinity with the positively charged amino groups in the cyclic peptide portion. Subsequently, the fatty acid portion of polymyxin B dissolves in the hydrophobic region of the bacterial cell membrane. This results in an alteration in cell membrane structure, disruption of cell wall integrity and an increase in permeability for water and molecules. This will eventually lead to bacterial cell death.
local antiseptic	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
polymyxin b sulphate [skin]	The sulfate salt form of polymyxin B, a mixture of the polypeptides polymyxins B1 and B2, both obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains, with antimicrobial activity. Polymyxin B exerts its antimicrobial effect through its cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Specifically, this antibiotic binds to the negatively charged site in the lipopolysaccharide layer of the bacterial cell membrane via electrostatic affinity with the positively charged amino groups in the cyclic peptide portion. Subsequently, the fatty acid portion of polymyxin B dissolves in the hydrophobic region of the bacterial cell membrane. This results in an alteration in cell membrane structure, disruption of cell wall integrity and an increase in permeability for water and molecules. This will eventually lead to bacterial cell death.
topical anti infective agents	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
polymyxin b product	A mixture of polymyxins B1 and B2, obtained from BACILLUS POLYMYXA strains. They are basic polypeptides of about eight amino acids and have cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Polymyxin B is used for treatment of infections with gram-negative bacteria, but may be neurotoxic and nephrotoxic.
polymyxin b sulf [eye]	The sulfate salt form of polymyxin B, a mixture of the polypeptides polymyxins B1 and B2, both obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains, with antimicrobial activity. Polymyxin B exerts its antimicrobial effect through its cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Specifically, this antibiotic binds to the negatively charged site in the lipopolysaccharide layer of the bacterial cell membrane via electrostatic affinity with the positively charged amino groups in the cyclic peptide portion. Subsequently, the fatty acid portion of polymyxin B dissolves in the hydrophobic region of the bacterial cell membrane. This results in an alteration in cell membrane structure, disruption of cell wall integrity and an increase in permeability for water and molecules. This will eventually lead to bacterial cell death.
b polymyxin sulfates	The sulfate salt form of polymyxin B, a mixture of the polypeptides polymyxins B1 and B2, both obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains, with antimicrobial activity. Polymyxin B exerts its antimicrobial effect through its cationic detergent action on cell membranes. Specifically, this antibiotic binds to the negatively charged site in the lipopolysaccharide layer of the bacterial cell membrane via electrostatic affinity with the positively charged amino groups in the cyclic peptide portion. Subsequently, the fatty acid portion of polymyxin B dissolves in the hydrophobic region of the bacterial cell membrane. This results in an alteration in cell membrane structure, disruption of cell wall integrity and an increase in permeability for water and molecules. This will eventually lead to bacterial cell death.
antiseptic	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
polymyxins	Basic lipopeptide antibiotic group obtained from Bacillus polymyxa. They affect the cell membrane by detergent action and may cause neuromuscular and kidney damage. At least eleven different members of the polymyxin group have been identified, each designated by a letter.
antiseptic preparation	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
bacteria in the blood	The presence of viable bacteria circulating in the blood. Fever, chills, tachycardia, and tachypnea are common acute manifestations of bacteremia. The majority of cases are seen in already hospitalized patients, most of whom have underlying diseases or procedures which render their bloodstreams susceptible to invasion.
disorder of bladder	disease or disorder of the urinary bladder, the musculomembranous sac in the anterior of the pelvic cavity that serves as a reservoir for urine, which it receives through the ureters and discharges through the urethra.
e coli infections	Infections with bacteria of the species ESCHERICHIA COLI.
klebsiella infection nos	Infections with bacteria of the genus KLEBSIELLA.
pseudomonas infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus PSEUDOMONAS.
bacterial meningitis nos	Bacterial infections of the leptomeninges and subarachnoid space, frequently involving the cerebral cortex, cranial nerves, cerebral blood vessels, spinal cord, and nerve roots.
infection soft tissue	Infections of non-skeletal tissue, i.e., exclusive of bone, ligaments, cartilage, and fibrous tissue. The concept is usually referred to as skin and soft tissue infections and usually subcutaneous and muscle tissue are involved. The predisposing factors in anaerobic infections are trauma, ischemia, and surgery. The organisms often derive from the fecal or oral flora, particularly in wounds associated with intestinal surgery, decubitus ulcer, and human bites. (From Cecil Textbook of Medicine, 19th ed, p1688)
affects	The feeling-tone accompaniment of an idea or mental representation. It is the most direct psychic derivative of instinct and the psychic representative of the various bodily changes by means of which instincts manifest themselves.
emotion finding	Those affective states which can be experienced and have arousing and motivational properties.
affective psychosis	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
amoxapine	The N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent LOXAPINE that works by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine, serotonin, or both; it also blocks dopamine receptors. Amoxapine is used for the treatment of depression.
psychotic affective disorders	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
desipramin	A tricyclic dibenzazepine compound that potentiates neurotransmission. Desipramine selectively blocks reuptake of norepinephrine from the neural synapse, and also appears to impair serotonin transport. This compound also possesses minor anticholinergic activity, through its affinity to muscarinic receptors.
psychosis affective	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
doxepin	A dibenzoxepin tricyclic compound. It displays a range of pharmacological actions including maintaining adrenergic innervation. Its mechanism of action is not fully understood, but it appears to block reuptake of monoaminergic neurotransmitters into presynaptic terminals. It also possesses anticholinergic activity and modulates antagonism of histamine H(1)- and H(2)-receptors.
psychotic affective disorder	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
trimipramine	Tricyclic antidepressant similar to IMIPRAMINE, but with more antihistaminic and sedative properties.
psychotic affective dis	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
imipramine pamoate	The pamoate salt of imipramine, a synthetic dibenzazepine derivative with anti-depressant activity. Imipramine pamoate, a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) potentiates the activity of adrenergic synapses by blocking the re-uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin, thereby preventing their degradation and increasing their availability. This drug also has antimuscarinic and anti-histamine properties, which contribute to its side effects.
affective disorders	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
psychosis; affective	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
disorder of affect	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affective disorder	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
mood disorder	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affecive disorder nos	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
unspecified affective psychoses nos	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
psychotic disorders	Disorders in which there is a loss of ego boundaries or a gross impairment in reality testing with delusions or prominent hallucinations. (From DSM-IV, 1994)
[x]unspecified mood affective disorder	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
unspecified affective psychosis	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
psychotic disorder	Disorders in which there is a loss of ego boundaries or a gross impairment in reality testing with delusions or prominent hallucinations. (From DSM-IV, 1994)
emotion	Those affective states which can be experienced and have arousing and motivational properties.
affective psychoses	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
affective; disorder	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affective disturbances	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
disorder affect	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affective; psychosis	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
mood disorders	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affective psychosis nos	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
affective dis	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affect disorder	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affective disorders nos	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affect disorders	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
unspecified mood [affective] disorder	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
mood disorder nos	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
mood [affective] disorders	emotional behavior inappropriate for one's age or circumstances, characterized by unusual excitability, guilt, anxiety, or hostility.
affective dis psychotic	Disorders in which the essential feature is a severe disturbance in mood (depression, anxiety, elation, and excitement) accompanied by psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, gross impairment in reality testing, etc.
unspecified bipolar affective disorder	A major affective disorder marked by severe mood swings (manic or major depressive episodes) and a tendency to remission and recurrence.
bipolar disorder nos	A major affective disorder marked by severe mood swings (manic or major depressive episodes) and a tendency to remission and recurrence.
bipolar disorder	A major affective disorder marked by severe mood swings (manic or major depressive episodes) and a tendency to remission and recurrence.
manic-depressive illness	A major affective disorder marked by severe mood swings (manic or major depressive episodes) and a tendency to remission and recurrence.
bipolar affective disorder	A major affective disorder marked by severe mood swings (manic or major depressive episodes) and a tendency to remission and recurrence.
affective personality disorder	An affective disorder characterized by periods of depression and hypomania. These may be separated by periods of normal mood.
cyclothymic personality	An affective disorder characterized by periods of depression and hypomania. These may be separated by periods of normal mood.
cyclothymic dis	An affective disorder characterized by periods of depression and hypomania. These may be separated by periods of normal mood.
bipolar disorder manic phase	manic episode of the major affective disorder bipolar depression; tendency to remission and recurrence and to swing to the major depressive episode.
bipol i currnt manic nos	manic episode of the major affective disorder bipolar depression; tendency to remission and recurrence and to swing to the major depressive episode.
depressive neurosis	An affective disorder manifested by either a dysphoric mood or loss of interest or pleasure in usual activities. The mood disturbance is prominent and relatively persistent.
mood disorder of depressed type	An affective disorder manifested by either a dysphoric mood or loss of interest or pleasure in usual activities. The mood disturbance is prominent and relatively persistent.
affective symptoms	Mood or emotional responses dissonant with or inappropriate to the behavior and/or stimulus.
unaware of others' emotions	A deficit in emotional awareness characterized by difficulties in recognizing and expressing feelings and emotions manifested as a limited ability to respond to facial clues or other signs of emotions in others often accompanied by detached connections to others. [PMID:32471365]
afferent loop syndrome	A complication of gastrojejunostomy (BILLROTH II PROCEDURE), a reconstructive GASTROENTEROSTOMY. It is caused by acute (complete) or chronic (intermittent) obstruction of the afferent jejunal loop due to HERNIA, intussusception, kinking, VOLVULUS, etc. It is characterized by PAIN and VOMITING of BILE-stained fluid.
postgastric surgery syndrome nos	Sequelae of gastrectomy from the second week after operation on. Include recurrent or anastomotic ulcer, postprandial syndromes (DUMPING SYNDROME and late postprandial hypoglycemia), disordered bowel action, and nutritional deficiencies.
syndrome; afferent loop	A complication of gastrojejunostomy (BILLROTH II PROCEDURE), a reconstructive GASTROENTEROSTOMY. It is caused by acute (complete) or chronic (intermittent) obstruction of the afferent jejunal loop due to HERNIA, intussusception, kinking, VOLVULUS, etc. It is characterized by PAIN and VOMITING of BILE-stained fluid.
duodenum	The shortest and widest portion of the SMALL INTESTINE adjacent to the PYLORUS of the STOMACH. It is named for having the length equal to about the width of 12 fingers.
syndrome; gastrojejunal loop obstruction	A complication of gastrojejunostomy (BILLROTH II PROCEDURE), a reconstructive GASTROENTEROSTOMY. It is caused by acute (complete) or chronic (intermittent) obstruction of the afferent jejunal loop due to HERNIA, intussusception, kinking, VOLVULUS, etc. It is characterized by PAIN and VOMITING of BILE-stained fluid.
stomach	An area of the stomach, not otherwise specified.
afferent; loop syndrome	A complication of gastrojejunostomy (BILLROTH II PROCEDURE), a reconstructive GASTROENTEROSTOMY. It is caused by acute (complete) or chronic (intermittent) obstruction of the afferent jejunal loop due to HERNIA, intussusception, kinking, VOLVULUS, etc. It is characterized by PAIN and VOMITING of BILE-stained fluid.
disorder of duodenum	Pathological conditions in the DUODENUM region of the small intestine (INTESTINE, SMALL).
gastrojejunal loop obstruction; syndrome	A complication of gastrojejunostomy (BILLROTH II PROCEDURE), a reconstructive GASTROENTEROSTOMY. It is caused by acute (complete) or chronic (intermittent) obstruction of the afferent jejunal loop due to HERNIA, intussusception, kinking, VOLVULUS, etc. It is characterized by PAIN and VOMITING of BILE-stained fluid.
jejunal	The middle portion of the SMALL INTESTINE, between DUODENUM and ILEUM. It represents about 2/5 of the remaining portion of the small intestine below duodenum.
afferent pathways	Nerve structures through which impulses are conducted from a peripheral part toward a nerve center.
neural pathways	Neural tracts connecting one part of the nervous system with another.
pars peripherica	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
affinity labels	Analogs of those substrates or compounds which bind naturally at the active sites of proteins, enzymes, antibodies, steroids, or physiological receptors. These analogs form a stable covalent bond at the binding site, thereby acting as inhibitors of the proteins or steroids.
thiouridine	A photoactivable URIDINE analog that is used as an affinity label.
afghanistan	Country located north and west of Pakistan, and east of Iran. The capital is Kabul.
countries	<p>Countries of the world. ISO 3166, part 1, alpha-3 set.</p>
afibrinogenemia	A deficiency or absence of FIBRINOGEN in the blood.
fibrinogen	Plasma glycoprotein clotted by thrombin, composed of a dimer of three non-identical pairs of polypeptide chains (alpha, beta, gamma) held together by disulfide bonds. Fibrinogen clotting is a sol-gel change involving complex molecular arrangements: whereas fibrinogen is cleaved by thrombin to form polypeptides A and B, the proteolytic action of other enzymes yields different fibrinogen degradation products.
fibrinogen; deficiency	A usually inherited blood coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of fibrinogen in the blood, resulting in bleeding.
deficiency of factor i [fibrinogen]	A usually inherited blood coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of fibrinogen in the blood, resulting in bleeding.
factor i deficiency	A usually inherited blood coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of fibrinogen in the blood, resulting in bleeding.
fibrinogen defic	A usually inherited blood coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of fibrinogen in the blood, resulting in bleeding.
fibrinogen deficiency	A usually inherited blood coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of fibrinogen in the blood, resulting in bleeding.
haemostasis	The process which spontaneously arrests the flow of BLOOD from vessels carrying blood under pressure. It is accomplished by contraction of the vessels, adhesion and aggregation of formed blood elements (eg. ERYTHROCYTE AGGREGATION), and the process of BLOOD COAGULATION.
deficiency factor i	A usually inherited blood coagulation disorder characterized by the partial or complete absence of fibrinogen in the blood, resulting in bleeding.
system structure body	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
aflatoxins	Furano-furano-benzopyrans that are produced by ASPERGILLUS from STERIGMATOCYSTIN. They are structurally related to COUMARINS and easily oxidized to an epoxide form to become ALKYLATING AGENTS. Members of the group include AFLATOXIN B1; aflatoxin B2, aflatoxin G1, aflatoxin G2; AFLATOXIN M1; and aflatoxin M2.
aflatoxin	Furano-furano-benzopyrans that are produced by ASPERGILLUS from STERIGMATOCYSTIN. They are structurally related to COUMARINS and easily oxidized to an epoxide form to become ALKYLATING AGENTS. Members of the group include AFLATOXIN B1; aflatoxin B2, aflatoxin G1, aflatoxin G2; AFLATOXIN M1; and aflatoxin M2.
penicillic acid	A mycotoxin with antibiotic and carcinogenic activity produced by various strains of PENICILLIUM and ASPERGILLUS. It has been found in tobacco, sausages, and corn.
toxic chemical	Substances which, when ingested, inhaled, or absorbed, or when applied to, injected into, or developed within the body in relatively small amounts may, by their chemical action, cause damage to structure or disturbance of function. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
aft - aflatoxin	Furano-furano-benzopyrans that are produced by ASPERGILLUS from STERIGMATOCYSTIN. They are structurally related to COUMARINS and easily oxidized to an epoxide form to become ALKYLATING AGENTS. Members of the group include AFLATOXIN B1; aflatoxin B2, aflatoxin G1, aflatoxin G2; AFLATOXIN M1; and aflatoxin M2.
mycotoxin	Toxic compounds produced by FUNGI.
africa	second largest continent, after Asia, covering about one-fifth of the total land surface of the Earth; the continent is bounded on the west by the Atlantic Ocean, on the north by the Mediterranean Sea, on the east by the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean, and on the south by the mingling waters of the Atlantic and Indian oceans.
kenya	A republic in eastern Africa, south of ETHIOPIA, west of SOMALIA with TANZANIA to its south, and coastline on the Indian Ocean. Its capital is Nairobi.
geographical continent	One of the large landmasses of the earth.
continent	One of the large landmasses of the earth.
angola	A republic in southern Africa, southwest of DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO and west of ZAMBIA. Its capital is Luanda.
benin	A country in western Africa, south of NIGER and between TOGO and NIGERIA. Its capital is Porto-Novo.
burkina faso	A republic in western Africa, south and east of MALI and west of NIGER. Its capital is Ouagadougou. It was formerly called Upper Volta until 1984.
republic of cape verde	La república se compone de islas que se encuentran en la mitad del Océano Atlántico a unas 300 millas de la costa oeste de África. El archipiélago de 10 islas, y 5 islotes, divididas en los grupos de barlovento (Barlovento) y sotavento (Sotavento). La capital es Praia.
congo	A republic in central Africa lying between GABON and DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO and south of Cameroon. Its capital is Brazzaville.
djibouti	A republic in eastern Africa, on the Gulf of Aden at the entrance to the Red Sea. Djibouti is also the name of its capital.
egypt	country in northeastern Africa and the Sinai Peninsula, bordering on the Mediterranean and Red Seas, capital city is Cairo.
eritrea	A country of eastern Africa, west of the Red Sea, bordered west and northwest by SUDAN, and south by ETHIOPIA. Its capital is Asmara.
ethiopia	An independent state in eastern Africa. Ethiopia is located in the Horn of Africa and is bordered on the north and northeast by Eritrea, on the east by Djibouti and Somalia, on the south by Kenya, and on the west and southwest by Sudan. Its capital is Addis Ababa.
gabon	A republic in west equatorial Africa, south of CAMEROON and west of the CONGO. Its capital is Libreville.
gambia	A republic in western Africa, constituting an enclave within SENEGAL extending on both sides of the Gambia River. Its capital is Banjul, formerly Bathurst.
guinea	A republic in western Africa, south of SENEGAL and MALI, east of GUINEA-BISSAU. Its capital is Conakry.
cote d'ivoire	A republic in western Africa, south of MALI and BURKINA FASO, bordered by GHANA on the east. Its administrative capital is Abidjan and Yamoussoukro has been the official capital since 1983. The country was formerly called Ivory Coast.
malawi	A republic in southern Africa east of ZAMBIA and MOZAMBIQUE. Its capital is Lilongwe. It was formerly called Nyasaland.
mauritania	A republic in western Africa, southwest of ALGERIA and west of MALI. Its capital is Nouakchott.
mauritius	One of the Indian Ocean Islands, east of Madagascar. Its capital is Port Louis. It was discovered by the Portuguese in 1505, occupied by the Dutch 1598-1710, held by the French 1715-1810 when the British captured it, formally ceded to the British in 1814, and became independent in 1968. It was named by the Dutch in honor of Maurice of Nassau, Prince of Orange (1567-1625). (From Webster's New Geographical Dictionary, 1988, p742 & Room, Brewer's Dictionary of Names, 1992, p341)
morocco	A country located in north Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, with a southern border with Western Sahara, eastern border with Algeria. The capital is Rabat.
namibia	A republic in southern Africa, south of ANGOLA and west of BOTSWANA. Its capital is Windhoek.
sao tome and principe	Islands in the Gulf of Guinea, just north of the Equator, and west of Gabon.
senegal	A republic in western Africa, southwest of MAURITANIA and east of MALI. Its capital is Dakar.
sudan	A country in northeastern Africa. The capital is Khartoum.
eswatini	A kingdom in southern Africa, west of MOZAMBIQUE. Its capital is Mbabane. It became independent from Britain in 1968. The former country name Swaziland was changed in 2018. (from CIA World Factbook, 2019)
tanzania	A republic in eastern Africa, south of UGANDA and north of MOZAMBIQUE. Its capital is Dar es Salaam. It was formed in 1964 by a merger of the countries of TANGANYIKA and ZANZIBAR.
uganda	A republic in eastern Africa, south of SUDAN and west of KENYA. Its capital is Kampala.
bouvet island	An island in the South Atlantic Ocean, south-southwest of the Cape of Good Hope (South Africa). (NCI)
western sahara	A country in Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Mauritania and Morocco. (NCI)
african horse sickness virus	En art av Orbivirus som orsakar sjukdom hos hästar, mulåsnor, åsnor, nötkreatur och många andra däggdjur, samt under vissa betingelser även människor, genom sin huvudsakliga vektor Culicoides.
orbiviruses	genus of Reoviridae infecting a wide range of arthropods and vertebrates including humans; comprises at least twelve serological subgroups; transmission is by vectors such as midges, mosquitoes, sandflies, and ticks.
equine plagues	An insect-borne reovirus infection of horses, mules and donkeys in Africa and the Middle East; characterized by pulmonary edema, cardiac involvement, and edema of the head and neck.
wart-hog diseases	A sometimes fatal ASFIVIRUS infection of pigs, characterized by fever, cough, diarrhea, hemorrhagic lymph nodes, and edema of the gallbladder. It is transmitted between domestic swine by direct contact, ingestion of infected meat, or fomites, or mechanically by biting flies or soft ticks (genus Ornithodoros).
viral infection nos	A general term for diseases caused by viruses.
african swine fever	A sometimes fatal ASFIVIRUS infection of pigs, characterized by fever, cough, diarrhea, hemorrhagic lymph nodes, and edema of the gallbladder. It is transmitted between domestic swine by direct contact, ingestion of infected meat, or fomites, or mechanically by biting flies or soft ticks (genus Ornithodoros).
non-human disease	Disorders which occur in animals but not in man
african swine fever virus	The lone species of the genus Asfivirus. It infects domestic and wild pigs, warthogs, and bushpigs. Disease is endemic in domestic swine in many African countries and Sardinia. Soft ticks of the genus Ornithodoros are also infected and act as vectors.
asfiviruses	Jediný rod čeledi Asfarviridae obsahující jediný druh - virus afrického moru prasat.
african swine fever virus infection	A sometimes fatal ASFIVIRUS infection of pigs, characterized by fever, cough, diarrhea, hemorrhagic lymph nodes, and edema of the gallbladder. It is transmitted between domestic swine by direct contact, ingestion of infected meat, or fomites, or mechanically by biting flies or soft ticks (genus Ornithodoros).
wart hog disease	A sometimes fatal ASFIVIRUS infection of pigs, characterized by fever, cough, diarrhea, hemorrhagic lymph nodes, and edema of the gallbladder. It is transmitted between domestic swine by direct contact, ingestion of infected meat, or fomites, or mechanically by biting flies or soft ticks (genus Ornithodoros).
afrikaans language	A West Germanic language, evolved from Dutch, spoken in South Africa, Namibia and, to a lesser extent, Botswana and Zimbabwe.
west germanic language	A group of Germanic languages that developed in the region of the North Sea, Rhine-Weser, and Elbe.
after image	Continuation of visual impression after cessation of stimuli causing the original image.
entoptic phenomenon	Visual sensation derived from sensory stimulation by objects or shadows inside the eye itself, such as floating vitreous fibers, tissues, or blood.
afterimages	Continuation of visual impression after cessation of stimuli causing the original image.
afterimage	Continuation of visual impression after cessation of stimuli causing the original image.
entoptic vision	Visual sensation derived from sensory stimulation by objects or shadows inside the eye itself, such as floating vitreous fibers, tissues, or blood.
after images	Continuation of visual impression after cessation of stimuli causing the original image.
vision	sense of sight.
image after	Continuation of visual impression after cessation of stimuli causing the original image.
functions visual	sense of sight.
structure of visual system	The eye, ocular adnexa, afferent visual pathways, efferent visual pathways, and pupil innervation pathways
neurologic system	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
laxatives agar	A complex sulfated polymer of galactose units, extracted from Gelidium cartilagineum, Gracilaria confervoides, and related red algae. It is used as a gel in the preparation of solid culture media for microorganisms, as a bulk laxative, in making emulsions, and as a supporting medium for immunodiffusion and immunoelectrophoresis.
growth media	Any liquid or solid preparation made specifically for the growth, storage, or transport of microorganisms or other types of cells. The variety of media that exist allow for the culturing of specific microorganisms and cell types, such as differential media, selective media, test media, and defined media. Solid media consist of liquid media that have been solidified with an agent such as AGAR or GELATIN.
mushrooms	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
coprinus radians	A species of saprobic mushroom-forming fungi in the family Psathyrellaceae.
agaricales anamorphs	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
amanita	A genus of fungi of the family Agaricaceae, order Agaricales; most species are poisonous.
mushroom	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
cortinarius	A genus of mushrooms in the family Cortinariaceae. When ingested, species of Cortinarius cause delayed acute RENAL FAILURE.
anamorphic agaricales	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
genus schizophyllum	A genus of fleshy shelf basidiomycetous fungi, family Schizophyllaceae, order AGARICALES, growing on woody substrata. It is pathogenic in humans.
agaricales	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
tricholoma	A large genus of gilled mushrooms in the family Tricholomataceae. They are most often found in mountain and northern forests.
toadstool	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
psilocybe	A genus of small mushrooms in the family Strophariaceae. Some species are known for their hallucinogenic properties.
basidiomycota	phylum of fungi that produce their sexual spores (basidiospores) on the outside of the basidium; includes forms commonly known as mushrooms, boletes, puffballs, earthstars, stinkhorns, bird's-nest fungi, jelly fungi, bracket or shelf fungi, and rust and smut fungi.
lycoperdales	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
amanitas	A genus of fungi of the family Agaricaceae, order Agaricales; most species are poisonous.
schizophyllums	A genus of fleshy shelf basidiomycetous fungi, family Schizophyllaceae, order AGARICALES, growing on woody substrata. It is pathogenic in humans.
mushrooms and toadstools	extensive order of basidiomycetous fungi whose fruiting bodies are commonly call mushrooms.
postnatal age	Age after birth.
childhood age	Postnatal age 2 to 9
chronological age	Age after birth.
pre-adolescent age	Postnatal age 9 to 11.
gestational age	The age of the conceptus, beginning from the time of FERTILIZATION. In clinical obstetrics, the gestational age is often estimated as the time from the last day of the last MENSTRUATION which is about 2 weeks before OVULATION and fertilization.
temporal lobe	Lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere responsible for auditory, olfactory, and semantic processing. It is located inferior to the lateral fissure and anterior to the OCCIPITAL LOBE.
estimated gestational age	An approximate calculation of the gestational age of the fetus.
has age	Age after birth.
age-years	The length of a person's life, stated in years since birth.
age - descriptor	Age after birth.
age at first full-term pregnancy	The age at which a woman gave birth to her first live child.
current chronological age	Age after birth.
subjectage	Age of patient who is the subject of observations.
age at initial pathologic diagnosis	A question about the age of the individual at the time of the initial pathologic diagnosis.
age determination by skeleton	Establishment of the age of an individual by examination of their skeletal structure.
skeletally mature	An indication that an individual's growth plates are fused and that bone growth has ceased.
aged persons	A person 65 through 79 years of age. For a person older than 79 years, AGED, 80 AND OVER is available.
mestranol [combined oral contraceptive]	The 3-methyl ether of ETHINYL ESTRADIOL. It must be demethylated to be biologically active. It is used as the estrogen component of many combination ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES.
older adult	A person 65 through 79 years of age. For a person older than 79 years, AGED, 80 AND OVER is available.
oxaprozin potassium	The potassium salt form of oxaprozin and a member of the propionic acid group of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) with anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic properties. Oxaprozin potassium reversibly and competitively inhibits cyclooxygenases (COX), thereby blocking the conversion of arachidonic acid to pro-inflammatory prostaglandins. This inhibits the formation of prostaglandins that are involved in pain, inflammation and fever.
older adults	A person 65 through 79 years of age. For a person older than 79 years, AGED, 80 AND OVER is available.
acute substance withdrawal syndrome	Serious, multifactorial sequelae following abrupt cessation of an addictive compound.
adult	A person having attained full growth or maturity. Adults are of 19 through 44 years of age. For a person between 19 and 24 years of age, YOUNG ADULT is available.
abuse protection support: elder	Identification of high-risk, dependent elder relationships and actions to prevent possible or further infliction of physical, sexual, or emotional harm; neglect of basic necessities of life; or exploitation
human age group	a general term for grouping human age group terms; prefer NTs.
agglutination	<p>Agglutination</p>
immune function	Any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system, an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats. [GO_REF:0000022, GOC:add]
agglutination assay	Tests that are dependent on the clumping of cells, microorganisms, or particles when mixed with specific antiserum. (From Stedman, 26th ed)
immunology nos	immunochemical assay or detection of a substance or immune response by serologic or immunologic methods.
agglutination tests	Tests that are dependent on the clumping of cells, microorganisms, or particles when mixed with specific antiserum. (From Stedman, 26th ed)
hemagglutination assay	Sensitive tests to measure certain antigens, antibodies, or viruses, using their ability to agglutinate certain erythrocytes. (From Stedman, 26th ed)
agglutination reaction	Tests that are dependent on the clumping of cells, microorganisms, or particles when mixed with specific antiserum. (From Stedman, 26th ed)
latex agglutination tests	Passive agglutination tests in which antigen is adsorbed onto latex particles which then clump in the presence of antibody specific for the adsorbed antigen. (From Stedman, 26th ed)
agglutination test	Tests that are dependent on the clumping of cells, microorganisms, or particles when mixed with specific antiserum. (From Stedman, 26th ed)
immunologic assay	immunochemical assay or detection of a substance or immune response by serologic or immunologic methods.
immunologic factors	Biologically active substances whose activities affect or play a role in the functioning of the immune system.
evaluation	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
evaluation - action	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
agglutination testing	Tests that are dependent on the clumping of cells, microorganisms, or particles when mixed with specific antiserum. (From Stedman, 26th ed)
patient evaluation procedure	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
immunological factor	Biologically active substances whose activities affect or play a role in the functioning of the immune system.
patient evaluation - action	Determination of a value, conclusion, or inference by evaluating evidence
agglutinin	A substance that makes particles (such as bacteria or cells) stick together to form a clump or a mass.
lectin	Proteins that share the common characteristic of binding to carbohydrates. Some ANTIBODIES and carbohydrate-metabolizing proteins (ENZYMES) also bind to carbohydrates, however they are not considered lectins. PLANT LECTINS are carbohydrate-binding proteins that have been primarily identified by their hemagglutinating activity (HEMAGGLUTININS). However, a variety of lectins occur in animal species where they serve diverse array of functions through specific carbohydrate recognition.
precipitin	Antibodies which elicit IMMUNOPRECIPITATION when combined with antigen.
agglutinins	A substance that makes particles (such as bacteria or cells) stick together to form a clump or a mass.
precipitins	Antibodies which elicit IMMUNOPRECIPITATION when combined with antigen.
aggressiveness	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
violence	rough or injurious physical force, action, or treatment.
aggression	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
violent behavior	Any action that results in intimidation, harm, damage, or destruction of someone or something.
aggressive behavior	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
deficiency of monoamine oxidase a	A very rare recessive X-linked biogenic amine metabolism disorder with clinical characteristics of mild intellectual deficit, impulsive aggressiveness, sometimes violent behavior and presenting from childhood.
aggressive behaviours	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
aggressive behaviour	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
mehmo syndrome	MEHMO syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, epilepsy, microcephaly, hypogenitalism and obesity. Growth delay and diabetes are also present. To date, it has been described in seven boys, all of who died within the first two years of life. The causative gene has been located to the 21.1-22.13p region of the X chromosome and the syndrome appears to result from mitochondrial dysfunction.
olivopontocerebellar atrophy v	Disease with characteristics of a variable clinical picture which can include dementia, psychiatric disorders, parkinsonism, dystonia, chorea, spasticity and epilepsy. Worldwide prevalence is unknown. Fewer than 100 families have been reported to date. Clinical features overlap with many neurodegenerative syndromes and specifically Huntington disease. Caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the TATA box-binding protein gene TBP (6q27). Prognosis is poor. More than 60% of patients present with dysphagia which frequently results in aspiration and death. Mean disease duration is less than 18 years and a few patients live beyond 60 years of age.
pitt-hopkins syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) on the TCF4 gene, encoding transcription factor 4. It is characterized by intellectual disability, developmental delay, breathing problems and seizures.
ck syndrome	A rare genetic X-linked syndromic intellectual disability disorder characterised by mild to severe intellectual disability, infancy-onset seizures, post-natal microcephaly, cerebral cortical malformations, dysmorphic facial features (including long, narrow face, almond-shaped palpebral fissures, epicanthic folds, high nasal bridge, malar flattening, posteriorly rotated ears, high arched palate, crowded teeth, micrognathia) and thin body habitus. Long and slim fingers/toes, strabismus, hypotonia, spasticity, optic disc atrophy, and behavioural problems (aggression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and irritability) are additional features. Caused by hemizygous mutation in the NSDHL gene on chromosome Xq28.
gss syndrome	An autosomal dominant familial prion disease with a wide spectrum of clinical presentations including ATAXIA, spastic paraparesis, extrapyramidal signs, and DEMENTIA. Clinical onset is in the third to sixth decade of life and the mean duration of illness prior to death is five years. Several kindreds with variable clinical and pathologic features have been described. Pathologic features include cerebral prion protein amyloidosis, and spongiform or neurofibrillary degeneration. (From Brain Pathol 1998 Jul;8(3):499-513; Brain Pathol 1995 Jan;5(1):61-75)
urbach-wiethe lipoid proteinosis	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by glassy degenerative thickening (hyalinosis) of SKIN; MUCOSA; and certain VISCERA. This disorder is caused by mutation in the extracellular matrix protein 1 gene (ECM1). Clinical features include hoarseness and skin eruption due to widespread deposition of HYALIN.
mucopolysaccharidosis type iii-b	A rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of the enzyme N-acetyl-alpha-D-glucosaminidase. It is characterized by behavioral changes, sleep disturbances, and mental developmental delays.
atrophia bulborum hereditaria	A rare, X-linked recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the NPD gene. It is characterized by developmental retinal abnormalities that result in blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. Additional manifestations include progressive hearing loss and developmental motor skills delays.
aga deficiency	An autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation(s) in the NAGS gene, encoding N-acetylglutamate synthase, mitochondrial. It may be characterized by failure to thrive, hyperammonemia, lethargy, seizures, and coma.
aggressive behaviors	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
domestic violence	Deliberate, often repetitive physical, verbal, and/or other types of abuse by one or more members against others of a household.
violent behaviour	Any action that results in intimidation, harm, damage, or destruction of someone or something.
demonstrated behavior violent	Any action that results in intimidation, harm, damage, or destruction of someone or something.
fear-induced aggressive behavior	Aggressive behavior associated with attempts to flee from a threat. [GOC:hjd]
irritable aggressive behavior	Aggressive behavior induced by frustration and directed against an available target. [GOC:hjd]
maternal aggression	Aggressive behavior of a female to protect her offspring from a threat. [GOC:hjd]
instrumental aggression	Aggressive behavior directed towards obtaining some goal, considered to be a learned response to a situation. [GOC:hjd]
physically assaultive behaviour	Any action that results in intimidation, harm, damage, or destruction of someone or something.
rape trauma syndrome	Sustained maladaptive response to a forced, violent, sexual penetration against the victim's will and consent.
disabled family coping	Behavior of primary person (family member, significant other, or close friend) that disables his or her capacities and the client's capacities to effectively address tasks essential to either person's adaptation to the health challenge.
aggressions	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
post-trauma response	Sustained maladaptive response to a traumatic, overwhelming event.
hostility	Tendency to feel anger toward and to seek to inflict harm upon a person or group.
bullying	Aggressive behavior by a more powerful party that results in physical harm to or emotional distress of the victim.
aggressive	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
territorial aggression	Aggressive behavior performed in defence of a fixed area against intruders, typically conspecifics. [GOC:hjd]
anger management	Activities that decrease or control negative feelings and interactions, including violence.
demonstrated violent behavior	Any action that results in intimidation, harm, damage, or destruction of someone or something.
behavior violent	Any action that results in intimidation, harm, damage, or destruction of someone or something.
physical aggression	Any action that results in intimidation, harm, damage, or destruction of someone or something.
violent aggressive behavior	Behavior which may be manifested by destructive and attacking action which is verbal or physical, by covert attitudes of hostility or by obstructionism.
aging	The gradual irreversible changes in structure and function of an organism that occur as a result of the passage of time.
gerontology	Scientific study of old age and the phenomena associated with old age.
cell senescence	final stage of cellular differentiation, characterized by inability to grow, divide, or repair damaged cell components, leading to cell death.
fruit ripening	An aging process that has as participant a fruit. Ripening causes changes in one or more characteristics of a fruit (color, aroma, flavor, texture, hardness, cell wall structure) and may make it more attractive to animals and aid in seed dispersal. [GOC:lr]
animal organ senescence	The process that occurs in an animal organ near the end of its active life that is associated with the dismantling of cell components and membranes, and an overall decline in metabolism. [GOC:tb]
multicellular organism aging	An aging process that has as participant a whole multicellular organism. Multicellular organism aging includes loss of functions such as resistance to disease, homeostasis, and fertility, as well as wear and tear. Multicellular organisms aging includes processes like cellular senescence and organ senescence, but is more inclusive. May precede death (GO:0016265) of an organism and may succeed developmental maturation (GO:0021700). [GOC:PO_curators]
plant organ senescence	The process that occurs in a plant organ near the end of its active life that is associated with the dismantling of cell components and membranes, and an overall decline in metabolism. [GOC:tb]
developmental process	A biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure (which may be a subcellular structure, cell, tissue, or organ), or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition. [GOC:isa_complete]
age-dependent general metabolic decline	A developmental process that arises as the cell progresses toward the end of its lifespan and cause changes cellular metabolism, resulting in a decline in cell function; for example, one aspect of general metabolic decline is a decrease in the efficiency of protein synthesis. [GOC:jh, GOC:mah, PMID:9891807]
modulation of age-related behavioral decline	Any process that modulates the processes that arise as an organism progresses toward the end of its lifespan that results in a decline in behavioral activities such as locomotory behavior, and learning or memory. [GOC:cjm, GOC:kmv, PMID:20523893]
ageing	The gradual irreversible changes in structure and function of an organism that occur as a result of the passage of time.
spiritual distress	A state of suffering related to the impaired ability to experience meaning in life through connections with self, others, the world, or a superior being.
impaired religiosity	Impaired ability to exercise reliance on beliefs and/or participate in rituals of a particular faith tradition.
risk for impaired religiosity	Susceptible to an impaired ability to exercise reliance on religious beliefs and/or participate in rituals of a particular faith tradition, which may compromise health.
risk for dry eye	Susceptible to eye discomfort or damage to the cornea and conjunctiva due to reduced quantity or quality of tears to moisten the eye, which may compromise health.
risk for dysfunctional gastrointestinal motility	Susceptible to increased, decreased, ineffective, or lack of peristaltic activity within the gastrointestinal system, which may compromise health.
premature aging syndrome	Changes in the organism associated with senescence, occurring at an accelerated rate.
elderly	The process of growing old and showing the effects of time.
[d]senescence	The process of growing old and showing the effects of time.
aging process	Any physiological aspect of aging; irreversible changes in an organism that occur over time and lead to a more mature condition.
klotho gene	This gene is involved in signaling.
retinoschisin protein	Retinoschisin Protein (224 aa, 26 kDa) is a development protein that is encoded by the human RS1 gene and is involved in retinal development and aging, and may play a role in cell-cell adhesion.
kl wt allele	Human KL wild-type allele is located in the vicinity of 13q12 and is approximately 50 kb in length. This allele, which encodes klotho protein, plays a role in both signal transduction and the modulation of aging.
agnogenic myeloid metaplasia	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
myelosclerosis	replacement of the bone marrow by fibrous tissue, occurring in association with a myeloproliferative disorder or secondary to another unrelated condition.
myelosclerosis with myeloid metaplasia	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
myelofibrosis	replacement of the bone marrow by fibrous tissue, occurring in association with a myeloproliferative disorder or secondary to another unrelated condition.
metaplasia myelofibrosis myeloid	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
ruxolitinib	An orally bioavailable Janus-associated kinase (JAK) inhibitor with potential antineoplastic and immunomodulating activities. Ruxolitinib specifically binds to and inhibits protein tyrosine kinases JAK 1 and 2, which may lead to a reduction in inflammation and an inhibition of cellular proliferation. The JAK-STAT (signal transducer and activator of transcription) pathway plays a key role in the signaling of many cytokines and growth factors and is involved in cellular proliferation, growth, hematopoiesis, and the immune response; JAK kinases may be upregulated in inflammatory diseases, myeloproliferative disorders, and various malignancies.
primary myelofibrosis	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
ruxolitinib phosphate	The phosphate salt form of ruxolitinib, an orally bioavailable Janus-associated kinase (JAK) inhibitor with potential antineoplastic and immunomodulating activities. Ruxolitinib specifically binds to and inhibits protein tyrosine kinases JAK 1 and 2, which may lead to a reduction in inflammation and an inhibition of cellular proliferation. The JAK-STAT (signal transducer and activator of transcription) pathway plays a key role in the signaling of many cytokines and growth factors and is involved in cellular proliferation, growth, hematopoiesis, and the immune response; JAK kinases may be upregulated in inflammatory diseases, myeloproliferative disorders, and various malignancies.
fedratinib	An orally bioavailable, small-molecule, ATP-competitive inhibitor of Janus-associated kinase 2 (JAK2) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3; CD135; STK1; FLK2), with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, fedratinib competes with wild-type JAK2 as well as mutated forms for ATP binding, which may result in inhibition of JAK2 activation, inhibition of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, inhibition of tumor cell proliferation and induction of tumor cell apoptosis. JAK2 is the most commonly mutated gene in bcr-abl-negative myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs). In addition, fedratinib targets, binds to and inhibits the activity of FLT3. This inhibits uncontrolled FLT3 signaling and results in the inhibition of proliferation in tumor cells overexpressing FLT3. FLT3, a class III receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), is overexpressed or mutated in most B-lineage neoplasms and in acute myeloid leukemias and plays a key role in tumor cell proliferation.
idiopathic bone marrow fibrosis	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
fedratinib hydrochloride	The monohydrate dihydrochloride salt form of fedratinib, an orally bioavailable, small-molecule, ATP-competitive inhibitor of Janus-associated kinase 2 (JAK2) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3; CD135; STK1; FLK2), with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, fedratinib competes with wild-type JAK2 as well as mutated forms for ATP binding, which may result in inhibition of JAK2 activation, inhibition of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, inhibition of tumor cell proliferation and induction of tumor cell apoptosis. JAK2 is the most commonly mutated gene in bcr-abl-negative myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs). In addition, fedratinib targets, binds to and inhibits the activity of FLT3. This inhibits uncontrolled FLT3 signaling and results in the inhibition of proliferation in tumor cells overexpressing FLT3. FLT3, a class III receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), is overexpressed or mutated in most B-lineage neoplasms and in acute myeloid leukemias and plays a key role in tumor cell proliferation.
refractory primary myelofibrosis	Primary myelofibrosis that is resistant to treatment.
bone marrow	The soft tissue filling the cavities of bones. Bone marrow exists in two types, yellow and red. Yellow marrow is found in the large cavities of large bones and consists mostly of fat cells and a few primitive blood cells. Red marrow is a hematopoietic tissue and is the site of production of erythrocytes and granular leukocytes. Bone marrow is made up of a framework of connective tissue containing branching fibers with the frame being filled with marrow cells.
increased bone marrow megakaryocytes	A laboratory test result indicating abnormally high numbers of megakaryocytes in the bone marrow.
cancers cell	Cells of, or derived from, a malignant tumor.
ineffective hematopoiesis	A dysfunction in the production of blood cells, resulting in decreased numbers of mature, functioning blood cells of all lines in circulation.
bone marrow blood-forming cell	A hematopoietic stem cell found in the bone marrow.
hematopoietic and lymphoid cell	One of the cells of the blood or bone marrow, a leukocyte or erythrocyte.
myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
hematopoietic and lymphoid tissue	Any of the tissues that contain hematopoietic cells and/or lymphocytes and immune system cells.
idiopathic myelofibrosis	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
cptac neoplasms codelist	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on neoplasms.
aleukemic myelosis	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
myelosis; aleukemic	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
myeloid metaplasia; myelosclerosis	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
myeloscleroses	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
myelosis; nonleukemic	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
nonleukemic myeloses	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
malignant neoplasm	A malignant tumor at the original site of growth.
myelofibroses	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
bone marrow fibrosis	replacement of the bone marrow by fibrous tissue, occurring in association with a myeloproliferative disorder or secondary to another unrelated condition.
leukaemia	A progressive, malignant disease of the blood-forming organs, characterized by distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow. Leukemias were originally termed acute or chronic based on life expectancy but now are classified according to cellular maturity. Acute leukemias consist of predominately immature cells; chronic leukemias are composed of more mature cells. (From The Merck Manual, 2006)
leukemias	A progressive, malignant disease of the blood-forming organs, characterized by distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow. Leukemias were originally termed acute or chronic based on life expectancy but now are classified according to cellular maturity. Acute leukemias consist of predominately immature cells; chronic leukemias are composed of more mature cells. (From The Merck Manual, 2006)
chronic myeloproliferative disease	A clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorder, characterized by proliferation in the bone marrow of one or more of the myeloid (i.e., granulocytic, erythroid, megakaryocytic, and mast cell) lineages. It is primarily a neoplasm of adults. (WHO 2008)
myeloid metaplasia	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
myelosis non-leukemic	A de novo myeloproliferation arising from an abnormal stem cell. It is characterized by the replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue, a process that is mediated by CYTOKINES arising from the abnormal clone.
haematopoietic	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
agnosia	Loss of the ability to comprehend the meaning or recognize the importance of various forms of stimulation that cannot be attributed to impairment of a primary sensory modality. Tactile agnosia is characterized by an inability to perceive the shape and nature of an object by touch alone, despite unimpaired sensation to light touch, position, and other primary sensory modalities.
alexia syndrome without agraphia	Förlust av förmågan att läsa, trots normal synförmåga. Vid alexi utan agrafi är skrivförmågan bibehållen. Tillståndet kan bero på skadad förbindelse mellan syncentrum i den icke-dominanta hjärnhalvan och språkcentrum i den dominanta.
[d]agnosia	Loss of the ability to comprehend the meaning or recognize the importance of various forms of stimulation that cannot be attributed to impairment of a primary sensory modality. Tactile agnosia is characterized by an inability to perceive the shape and nature of an object by touch alone, despite unimpaired sensation to light touch, position, and other primary sensory modalities.
tactile agnosia	Inability to recognize the form of objects by touch without visual input. That is, an impairment in the recognition of objects based only on the texture, size, weight and three-dimensional form of the object in the absence of any major somatosensory deficit. [HPO:probinson]
pain agnosia	Loss of the ability to perceive and process pain.
agraphesthesia	Impaired ability to recognize letters or numbers drawn by an examiner's fingertip on the patient's skin (the patients eyes are closed or covered throughout this examination). [HPO:probinson]
dyschiria	Porucha rozeznávání pravé a levé strany při doteku při neporušeném taktilním čití.
dyschirias	Porucha rozeznávání pravé a levé strany při doteku při neporušeném taktilním čití.
agnosias	Loss of the ability to comprehend the meaning or recognize the importance of various forms of stimulation that cannot be attributed to impairment of a primary sensory modality. Tactile agnosia is characterized by an inability to perceive the shape and nature of an object by touch alone, despite unimpaired sensation to light touch, position, and other primary sensory modalities.
astereognosis	Inability to recognize the form of objects by touch without visual input. That is, an impairment in the recognition of objects based only on the texture, size, weight and three-dimensional form of the object in the absence of any major somatosensory deficit. [HPO:probinson]
agnosia for pain	Loss of the ability to perceive and process pain.
visual agnosia	Difficulty in recognizing objects by visual input in absence of sensorial visual impairment. [ICM:PCaroppo]
finger agnosia	An inability or difficulty differentiating among the fingers of either hand as well as the hands of others. [HPO:curators]
abnormality of higher mental function	Cognitive, psychiatric or memory anomaly. [DDD:ajackson]
anosognosia	Ztráta schopnosti uvědomovat si svůj zdravotní stav.
function neurologic	Egenskaper och processer typiska för nervsystemet som helhet eller med avseende på det perifera eller centrala nervsystemet.
asterognosia	Inability to recognize the form of objects by touch without visual input. That is, an impairment in the recognition of objects based only on the texture, size, weight and three-dimensional form of the object in the absence of any major somatosensory deficit. [HPO:probinson]
prosopagnosia	The inability to recognize a familiar face or to learn to recognize new faces. This visual agnosia is most often associated with lesions involving the junctional regions between the temporal and occipital lobes. The majority of cases are associated with bilateral lesions, however unilateral damage to the right occipito-temporal cortex has also been associated with this condition. (From Cortex 1995 Jun;31(2):317-29).
symbolic dysfunction agnosia	Loss of the ability to comprehend the meaning or recognize the importance of various forms of stimulation that cannot be attributed to impairment of a primary sensory modality. Tactile agnosia is characterized by an inability to perceive the shape and nature of an object by touch alone, despite unimpaired sensation to light touch, position, and other primary sensory modalities.
astereognosia	Inability to recognize the form of objects by touch without visual input. That is, an impairment in the recognition of objects based only on the texture, size, weight and three-dimensional form of the object in the absence of any major somatosensory deficit. [HPO:probinson]
agonistic behavior	Any behavior associated with conflict between two individuals.
conduct	The observable response of a man or animal to a situation.
agonistic behaviour	Any behavior associated with conflict between two individuals.
agoraphobia	Obsessive, persistent, intense fear of open places.
panic disorder with agoraphobia	A disorder in which an individual experiences recurrent, unexpected panic attacks and persistent concern about having additional panic attacks. Agoraphobia is a component of this disorder.
agoraphobia with panic disorder	A disorder in which an individual experiences recurrent, unexpected panic attacks and persistent concern about having additional panic attacks. Agoraphobia is a component of this disorder.
agoraphobias	Obsessive, persistent, intense fear of open places.
phobic disorders	Anxiety disorders in which the essential feature is persistent and irrational fear of a specific object, activity, or situation that the individual feels compelled to avoid. The individual recognizes the fear as excessive or unreasonable.
stiff-man syndrome	A condition characterized by persistent spasms (SPASM) involving multiple muscles, primarily in the lower limbs and trunk. The illness tends to occur in the fourth to sixth decade of life, presenting with intermittent spasms that become continuous. Minor sensory stimuli, such as noise and light touch, precipitate severe spasms. Spasms do not occur during sleep and only rarely involve cranial muscles. Respiration may become impaired in advanced cases. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1492; Neurology 1998 Jul;51(1):85-93)
phobia	Anxiety disorders in which the essential feature is persistent and irrational fear of a specific object, activity, or situation that the individual feels compelled to avoid. The individual recognizes the fear as excessive or unreasonable.
emotions	Those affective states which can be experienced and have arousing and motivational properties.
phobias nos	Anxiety disorders in which the essential feature is persistent and irrational fear of a specific object, activity, or situation that the individual feels compelled to avoid. The individual recognizes the fear as excessive or unreasonable.
fear of open spaces	Obsessive, persistent, intense fear of open places.
emotional	Those affective states which can be experienced and have arousing and motivational properties.
agoraphobia w/o panic	An anxiety disorder characterized by agoraphobia in the absence of a history of panic attacks; the individual fears incapacitation or humiliation in open, public places or situations due to panic-like symptoms rather than a full-blown panic attack.
agranulocytosis	A decrease in the number of GRANULOCYTES; (BASOPHILS; EOSINOPHILS; and NEUTROPHILS).
leukocytopenia	A decrease in the number of LEUKOCYTES in a blood sample below the normal range (LEUKOCYTE COUNT less than 4000).
neutropenias	A decrease in the number of NEUTROPHILS found in the blood.
congenital neutropenia	A congenital disorder characterized by chronic neutropenia with absolute neutrophil count less than 500/uL and arrest of neutrophil maturation at the promyelocyte/myelocyte level. It is inherited in autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant patterns. Sporadic cases have also been reported. It is usually diagnosed in the first year of life. Patients present with frequent and life-threatening infections.
neutropenia	A decrease in the number of NEUTROPHILS found in the blood.
cyclic neutropenia	Recurrent episodes of abnormally low levels of neutrophils in the body (neutropenia). [https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/6229/cyclic-neutropenia]
infantile genetic agranulocytosis	An inherited disorder in which there is a lower-than-normal number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell that is important in fighting infections). Infants with the disorder get infections caused by bacteria, and are at an increased risk of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or myelodysplasia (a bone marrow disorder).
febrile neutropenias	Neutropenia associated with fever, the latter indicating the presence of an infection.
decreased wbc	A condition in which there is a lower-than-normal number of leukocytes (white blood cells) in the blood.
agranulocytoses	A decrease in the number of GRANULOCYTES; (BASOPHILS; EOSINOPHILS; and NEUTROPHILS).
refractory neutropenia	A myelodysplastic syndrome characterized by the presence of at least 10% dysplastic neutrophils in the bone marrow or the peripheral blood.
granulopenia	An abnormally reduced number of granulocytes in the blood. [HPO:probinson]
kostmann neutropenia	A rare severe congenital neutropenia disorder with characteristics of lack of mature neutrophils (absolute neutrophil counts less than 500 cells/mm3) associated with frequent, recurrent bacterial infections (for example otitis media, pneumonia, sinusitis, urinary tract infections, abscess of skin and/or liver) and increased promyelocytes in the bone marrow. Periodontal disease, as well as neurological symptoms, such as cognitive impairment, severe neurodegeneration and epilepsy have been reported in some patients. Caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the HAX1 gene on chromosome 1q21.
severe congenital neutropenia	A congenital disorder characterized by chronic neutropenia with absolute neutrophil count less than 500/uL and arrest of neutrophil maturation at the promyelocyte/myelocyte level. It is inherited in autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant patterns. Sporadic cases have also been reported. It is usually diagnosed in the first year of life. Patients present with frequent and life-threatening infections.
leukopenia	A decrease in the number of LEUKOCYTES in a blood sample below the normal range (LEUKOCYTE COUNT less than 4000).
hematopoietic body system	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
agranulocytosis nos	A decrease in the number of GRANULOCYTES; (BASOPHILS; EOSINOPHILS; and NEUTROPHILS).
haematopoietic system structure	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
immunologic/allergic organ system	The body's defense mechanism against foreign organisms or substances and deviant native cells. It includes the humoral immune response and the cell-mediated response and consists of a complex of interrelated cellular, molecular, and genetic components.
white blood cells	White blood cells. These include granular leukocytes (BASOPHILS; EOSINOPHILS; and NEUTROPHILS) as well as non-granular leukocytes (LYMPHOCYTES and MONOCYTES).
abnormal;white cells	An abnormality of leukocytes. [HPO:probinson]
neutrophil count decreased	A decrease in the number of neutrophils in the peripheral blood.
hematopoietic system	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
leukocytes	White blood cells. These include granular leukocytes (BASOPHILS; EOSINOPHILS; and NEUTROPHILS) as well as non-granular leukocytes (LYMPHOCYTES and MONOCYTES).
leukocytes; anomaly	An abnormality of leukocytes. [HPO:probinson]
wbc abnormal	An abnormality of leukocytes. [HPO:probinson]
hemopoietic system	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
abnormal white blood cells	An abnormality of leukocytes. [HPO:probinson]
agraphia nos	Loss or impairment of the ability to write (letters, syllables, words, or phrases) due to an injury to a specific cerebral area or occasionally due to emotional factors. This condition rarely occurs in isolation, and often accompanies APHASIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p485; APA, Thesaurus of Psychological Index Terms, 1994)
[d]agraphia	Loss or impairment of the ability to write (letters, syllables, words, or phrases) due to an injury to a specific cerebral area or occasionally due to emotional factors. This condition rarely occurs in isolation, and often accompanies APHASIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p485; APA, Thesaurus of Psychological Index Terms, 1994)
agraphia	Loss or impairment of the ability to write (letters, syllables, words, or phrases) due to an injury to a specific cerebral area or occasionally due to emotional factors. This condition rarely occurs in isolation, and often accompanies APHASIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p485; APA, Thesaurus of Psychological Index Terms, 1994)
nervous system physiology	Egenskaper och processer typiska för nervsystemet som helhet eller med avseende på det perifera eller centrala nervsystemet.
agriculture	The science, art or practice of cultivating soil, producing crops, and raising livestock.
technology	The application of scientific knowledge to practical purposes in any field. It includes methods, techniques, and instrumentation.
agrobacterium	genus of gram negative, aerobic, rod shaped bacteria that produce nodules on the roots of leguminous plants; common soil inhabitants.
bacillus radiobacter	species of gram negative, aerobic bacteria isolated from soil and the stems and roots of plants; it causes the formation of plant tumors in a wide variety of higher plants.
polymonas	genus of gram negative, aerobic, rod shaped bacteria that produce nodules on the roots of leguminous plants; common soil inhabitants.
agrobacterium radiobacter	species of gram negative, aerobic bacteria isolated from soil and the stems and roots of plants; it causes the formation of plant tumors in a wide variety of higher plants.
genus agrobacterium	genus of gram negative, aerobic, rod shaped bacteria that produce nodules on the roots of leguminous plants; common soil inhabitants.
rhizobiaceae	A family of gram-negative bacteria which are saprophytes, symbionts, or plant pathogens.
aids dementia	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
impairment	A loss of part or all of a physical or mental ability, such as the ability to see, walk, or learn.
dementia associated with aids	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
aids-related dementia	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
dementia due to hiv disease	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
aids-dementia complex	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
hiv assoc cognitive motor complex	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
encephalopathy; resulting from hiv disease	Encephalopathy resulting from AIDS.
encephalitis hiv	Encephalopathy resulting from AIDS.
aids relat dementia complex	A neurologic condition associated with the ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and characterized by impaired concentration and memory, slowness of hand movements, ATAXIA, incontinence, apathy, and gait difficulties associated with HIV-1 viral infection of the central nervous system. Pathologic examination of the brain reveals white matter rarefaction, perivascular infiltrates of lymphocytes, foamy macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp760-1; N Engl J Med, 1995 Apr 6;332(14):934-40)
dementias	An acquired organic mental disorder with loss of intellectual abilities of sufficient severity to interfere with social or occupational functioning. The dysfunction is multifaceted and involves memory, behavior, personality, judgment, attention, spatial relations, language, abstract thought, and other executive functions. The intellectual decline is usually progressive, and initially spares the level of consciousness.
dementia disorder	An acquired organic mental disorder with loss of intellectual abilities of sufficient severity to interfere with social or occupational functioning. The dysfunction is multifaceted and involves memory, behavior, personality, judgment, attention, spatial relations, language, abstract thought, and other executive functions. The intellectual decline is usually progressive, and initially spares the level of consciousness.
enceph aids	Encephalopathy resulting from AIDS.
lymphadenopathy syndromes	A prodromal phase of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Laboratory criteria separating AIDS-related complex (ARC) from AIDS include elevated or hyperactive B-cell humoral immune responses, compared to depressed or normal antibody reactivity in AIDS; follicular or mixed hyperplasia in ARC lymph nodes, leading to lymphocyte degeneration and depletion more typical of AIDS; evolving succession of histopathological lesions such as localization of Kaposi's sarcoma, signaling the transition to the full-blown AIDS.
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome virus	Human immunodeficiency virus. A non-taxonomic and historical term referring to any of two species, specifically HIV-1 and/or HIV-2. Prior to 1986, this was called human T-lymphotropic virus type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus (HTLV-III/LAV). From 1986-1990, it was an official species called HIV. Since 1991, HIV was no longer considered an official species name; the two species were designated HIV-1 and HIV-2.
lymphadenopathy syndrome	A prodromal phase of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Laboratory criteria separating AIDS-related complex (ARC) from AIDS include elevated or hyperactive B-cell humoral immune responses, compared to depressed or normal antibody reactivity in AIDS; follicular or mixed hyperplasia in ARC lymph nodes, leading to lymphocyte degeneration and depletion more typical of AIDS; evolving succession of histopathological lesions such as localization of Kaposi's sarcoma, signaling the transition to the full-blown AIDS.
htlv-iii	Human immunodeficiency virus. A non-taxonomic and historical term referring to any of two species, specifically HIV-1 and/or HIV-2. Prior to 1986, this was called human T-lymphotropic virus type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus (HTLV-III/LAV). From 1986-1990, it was an official species called HIV. Since 1991, HIV was no longer considered an official species name; the two species were designated HIV-1 and HIV-2.
htlv iii infections	any state of infection accompanied by evidence of HIV in the body (positive test for HIV genome, cDNA, proteins, antigens, or antibodies); may be medically asymptomatic or symptomatic; use AIDS when appropriate.
ainhum	Spontaneous autoamputation of the fourth or fifth toe.
angiitis	Inflammation of any one of the blood vessels, including the ARTERIES; VEINS; and rest of the vasculature system in the body.
dactylolysis spontanea	Spontaneous autoamputation of the fourth or fifth toe.
spontaneous dactylolysis	Spontaneous autoamputation of the fourth or fifth toe.
abnormality of toe	An anomaly of a toe. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal degeneration	Disturbance of cell integrity and deterioration of normal tissue, cells or organs.
degeneration	Disturbance of cell integrity and deterioration of normal tissue, cells or organs.
fibrosis	Any pathological condition where fibrous connective tissue invades any organ, usually as a consequence of inflammation or other injury.
skin and subcutaneous tissue structure	A tissue sample that contains the epidermis, dermis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue.
dactylolysis	Spontaneous autoamputation of the fourth or fifth toe.
spontaneous dactylolyses	Spontaneous autoamputation of the fourth or fifth toe.
skin system	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
skin structure	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
little toe	The smallest and most lateral toe of the foot. (NCI)
ainhum - dactylolysis spontanea	Spontaneous autoamputation of the fourth or fifth toe.
stenosis	The condition of an anatomical structure's being constricted beyond normal dimensions.
degenerate	Disturbance of cell integrity and deterioration of normal tissue, cells or organs.
degenerative	Disturbance of cell integrity and deterioration of normal tissue, cells or organs.
skin and subcutaneous tissue	A tissue sample that contains the epidermis, dermis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue.
air -retired-	The mixture of gases present in the earth's atmosphere consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases.
gases	The vapor state of matter; nonelastic fluids in which the molecules are in free movement and their mean positions far apart. Gases tend to expand indefinitely, to diffuse and mix readily with other gases, to have definite relations of volume, temperature, and pressure, and to condense or liquefy at low temperatures or under sufficient pressure. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
aeroembolism	Blocking of a blood vessel by air bubbles that enter the circulatory system, usually after TRAUMA; surgical procedures, or changes in atmospheric pressure.
air conditioning	The maintenance of certain aspects of the environment within a defined space to facilitate the function of that space; aspects controlled include air temperature and motion, radiant heat level, moisture, and concentration of pollutants such as dust, microorganisms, and gases. (McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 4th ed)
air microbiology	The presence of bacteria, viruses, and fungi in the air. This term is not restricted to pathogenic organisms.
microbiology	The study of microorganisms such as fungi, bacteria, algae, archaea, and viruses.
air pollutant	Any substance in the air which could, if present in high enough concentration, harm humans, animals, vegetation or materials. Substances include GASES; PARTICULATE MATTER; and volatile ORGANIC CHEMICALS.
sulfur dioxide	A highly toxic, colorless, nonflammable gas. It is used as a pharmaceutical aid and antioxidant. It is also an environmental air pollutant.
air pollutants	Any substance in the air which could, if present in high enough concentration, harm humans, animals, vegetation or materials. Substances include GASES; PARTICULATE MATTER; and volatile ORGANIC CHEMICALS.
air pollutions	The presence of contaminants or pollutant substances in the air (AIR POLLUTANTS) that interfere with human health or welfare, or produce other harmful environmental effects. The substances may include GASES; PARTICULATE MATTER; or volatile ORGANIC CHEMICALS.
hydrogen sulphide	A flammable, poisonous gas with a characteristic odor of rotten eggs. It is used in the manufacture of chemicals, in metallurgy, and as an analytical reagent. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
gasoline	Volative flammable fuel (liquid hydrocarbons) derived from crude petroleum by processes such as distillation reforming, polymerization, etc.
hydrogen sulfide	A flammable, poisonous gas with a characteristic odor of rotten eggs. It is used in the manufacture of chemicals, in metallurgy, and as an analytical reagent. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
particulate matter	Particles of any solid substance, generally under 30 microns in size, often noted as PM30. There is special concern with PM1 which can get down to PULMONARY ALVEOLI and induce MACROPHAGE ACTIVATION and PHAGOCYTOSIS leading to FOREIGN BODY REACTION and LUNG DISEASES.
sulphur hydride	A flammable, poisonous gas with a characteristic odor of rotten eggs. It is used in the manufacture of chemicals, in metallurgy, and as an analytical reagent. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
sulphur dioxide	A highly toxic, colorless, nonflammable gas. It is used as a pharmaceutical aid and antioxidant. It is also an environmental air pollutant.
vehicle emission	Gases, fumes, vapors, and ODORANTS escaping from the cylinders of a gasoline or diesel internal-combustion engine. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 4th ed & Random House Unabridged Dictionary, 2d ed)
sulphurosum acidum/sulphur d	A highly toxic, colorless, nonflammable gas. It is used as a pharmaceutical aid and antioxidant. It is also an environmental air pollutant.
vehicle emissions	Gases, fumes, vapors, and ODORANTS escaping from the cylinders of a gasoline or diesel internal-combustion engine. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 4th ed & Random House Unabridged Dictionary, 2d ed)
sulfur hydride	A flammable, poisonous gas with a characteristic odor of rotten eggs. It is used in the manufacture of chemicals, in metallurgy, and as an analytical reagent. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
sulfurous anhydride	A highly toxic, colorless, nonflammable gas. It is used as a pharmaceutical aid and antioxidant. It is also an environmental air pollutant.
occup air pollutants	Toxic air-borne matter related to work performed They are usually produced by the specific nature of the occupation.
bisphenol a-containing product	A diphenylmethane derivative with two hydroxyphenyl groups. Bisphenol A (BPA) is a colorless solid that is used in the synthesis of commercial plastics, including polycarbonates and epoxy resins, which are incorporated into a wide variety of consumer goods. Ingested BPA may exhibit estrogenic effects. Exposure to BPA may increase the risk of certain cancers.
radioactive air pollutants	Pollutants present in air which exhibit radioactivity.
radon	A naturally radioactive element with atomic symbol Rn, and atomic number 86. It is a member of the noble gas family found in soil, and is released during the decay of RADIUM.
rn element	A naturally radioactive element with atomic symbol Rn, and atomic number 86. It is a member of the noble gas family found in soil, and is released during the decay of RADIUM.
air pollution	The presence of contaminants or pollutant substances in the air (AIR POLLUTANTS) that interfere with human health or welfare, or produce other harmful environmental effects. The substances may include GASES; PARTICULATE MATTER; or volatile ORGANIC CHEMICALS.
asthma	A form of bronchial disorder with three distinct components: airway hyper-responsiveness (RESPIRATORY HYPERSENSITIVITY), airway INFLAMMATION, and intermittent AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION. It is characterized by spasmodic contraction of airway smooth muscle, WHEEZING, and dyspnea (DYSPNEA, PAROXYSMAL).
environmental health	The science of controlling or modifying those conditions, influences, or forces surrounding man which relate to promoting, establishing, and maintaining health.
ozone	The unstable triatomic form of oxygen, O3. It is a powerful oxidant that is produced for various chemical and industrial uses. Its production is also catalyzed in the ATMOSPHERE by ULTRAVIOLET RAY irradiation of oxygen or other ozone precursors such as VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS and NITROGEN OXIDES. About 90% of the ozone in the atmosphere exists in the stratosphere (STRATOSPHERIC OZONE).
childhood asthma nos	<p>Asthma is a chronic disease that affects your airways. Your airways are tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs. If you have asthma, the inside walls of your airways become sore and swollen.</p> <p>In the United States, about 20 million people have <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/asthma.html">asthma</a>. Nearly 9 million of them are children. Children have smaller airways than adults, which makes asthma especially serious for them. Children with asthma may experience wheezing, coughing, chest tightness, and trouble breathing, especially early in the morning or at night. </p> <p>Many things can cause asthma, including</p> <ul> <li> Allergens - mold, pollen, animals</li> <li>Irritants - cigarette smoke, air pollution</li> <li>Weather - cold air, changes in weather</li> <li>Exercise </li> <li>Infections - flu, common cold</li> </ul> <p>When asthma symptoms become worse than usual, it is called an asthma attack. Asthma is treated with two kinds of medicines: quick-relief medicines to stop asthma symptoms and long-term control medicines to prevent symptoms. </p>
envir pollution	Contamination of the air, bodies of water, or land with substances that are harmful to human health and the environment.
air pressure	The force per unit area that the air exerts on any surface in contact with it. Primarily used for articles pertaining to air pressure within a closed environment.
blast; injury	Injuries resulting when a person is struck by particles impelled with violent force from an explosion. Blast causes pulmonary concussion and hemorrhage, laceration of other thoracic and abdominal viscera, ruptured ear drums, and minor effects in the central nervous system. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
pressure air	The force per unit area that the air exerts on any surface in contact with it. Primarily used for articles pertaining to air pressure within a closed environment.
caisson disease	A condition occurring as a result of exposure to a rapid fall in ambient pressure. Gases, nitrogen in particular, come out of solution and form bubbles in body fluid and blood. These gas bubbles accumulate in joint spaces and the peripheral circulation impairing tissue oxygenation causing disorientation, severe pain, and potentially death.
compressed-air disease	A condition occurring as a result of exposure to a rapid fall in ambient pressure. Gases, nitrogen in particular, come out of solution and form bubbles in body fluid and blood. These gas bubbles accumulate in joint spaces and the peripheral circulation impairing tissue oxygenation causing disorientation, severe pain, and potentially death.
barotrauma	Injury following pressure changes; includes injury to the eustachian tube, ear drum, lung and stomach.
air pressures	The force per unit area that the air exerts on any surface in contact with it. Primarily used for articles pertaining to air pressure within a closed environment.
blast injury from explosion	Injuries resulting when a person is struck by particles impelled with violent force from an explosion. Blast causes pulmonary concussion and hemorrhage, laceration of other thoracic and abdominal viscera, ruptured ear drums, and minor effects in the central nervous system. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
decompression sickness	A condition occurring as a result of exposure to a rapid fall in ambient pressure. Gases, nitrogen in particular, come out of solution and form bubbles in body fluid and blood. These gas bubbles accumulate in joint spaces and the peripheral circulation impairing tissue oxygenation causing disorientation, severe pain, and potentially death.
swimbladders	Thin-walled sacs or spaces which function as a part of the respiratory system in birds, fishes, insects, and mammals.
air sac	Thin-walled sacs or spaces which function as a part of the respiratory system in birds, fishes, insects, and mammals.
air bladders	Thin-walled sacs or spaces which function as a part of the respiratory system in birds, fishes, insects, and mammals.
send-spec	A terminology set that includes concepts relevant to CDISC SEND biospecimens.
airsickness	A sensation of discomfort associated with air travel that may include nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or sweating.
swing; nausea	Disorder caused by motion. It includes sea sickness, train sickness, roller coaster rides, rocking chair, hammock swing, car sickness, air sickness, or SPACE MOTION SICKNESS. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting and/or dizziness.
air sickness	A sensation of discomfort associated with air travel that may include nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or sweating.
motion sickness	Disorder caused by motion. It includes sea sickness, train sickness, roller coaster rides, rocking chair, hammock swing, car sickness, air sickness, or SPACE MOTION SICKNESS. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting and/or dizziness.
travel sickness nos	Disorder caused by motion. It includes sea sickness, train sickness, roller coaster rides, rocking chair, hammock swing, car sickness, air sickness, or SPACE MOTION SICKNESS. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting and/or dizziness.
motions	Physical motion, i.e., a change in position of a body or subject as a result of an external force. It is distinguished from MOVEMENT, a process resulting from biological activity.
vomiting	The forcible expulsion of the contents of the STOMACH through the MOUTH.
travel sickness	Disorder caused by motion. It includes sea sickness, train sickness, roller coaster rides, rocking chair, hammock swing, car sickness, air sickness, or SPACE MOTION SICKNESS. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting and/or dizziness.
upper gastrointestinal tract	Část GASTROINTESTINÁLNÍHO TRAKTU, která zahrnuje jícen (EZOFÁGUS), ŽALUDEK a DUODENUM.
respiratory obstruction	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
doxapram	A central respiratory stimulant with a brief duration of action. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmocopoeia, 30th ed, p1225)
obstruction airway	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
obstruction; respiratory	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
mephobarbital	A barbiturate that is metabolized to PHENOBARBITAL. It has been used for similar purposes, especially in EPILEPSY, but there is no evidence mephobarbital offers any advantage over PHENOBARBITAL.
embarrassed airway	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
phenobarbitone product	A barbituric acid derivative that acts as a nonselective central nervous system depressant. It potentiates GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID action on GABA-A RECEPTORS, and modulates chloride currents through receptor channels. It also inhibits glutamate induced depolarizations.
airway obstructed	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
pentobarbital sodium	The sodium salt of pentobarbital, a short-acting barbituric acid derivative with central nervous system (CNS) depressant property. Pentobarbital sodium binds to the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A subtype receptor, resulting in modulation of chloride transport through receptor channels and potentiation of GABA-induced increases in chloride conductance. This enhances postsynaptic responses to the inhibitory actions of GABA and causes CNS depression. In addition, this agent inhibits glutamate induced nerve depolarization and depresses voltage-activated calcium currents.
airways obstruction	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
choking	Interference with respiration by compression or obstruction of the larynx or trachea.
tracheal obstruction	Blockage of the lumen of the trachea. Causes include secretions, foreign bodies, and tumors.
obstruction	Blockage of a passageway.
airway obstruction	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
respiratory finding	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the respiratory system.
verrucous carcinoma of the glottis	An exophytic, slow growing, well differentiated and non-metastasizing squamous cell carcinoma with pushing margins that arises from the glottic area of the larynx. It usually presents with hoarseness.
verrucous carcinoma of subglottis	An exophytic, slow growing, well differentiated and non-metastasizing squamous cell carcinoma with pushing margins that arises from the subglottic area of the larynx.
supraglottic verrucous carcinoma	An exophytic, slow growing, well differentiated and non-metastasizing squamous cell carcinoma with pushing margins that arises from the supraglottic area of the larynx.
relapsed larynx verrucous carcinoma	The reemergence of verrucous carcinoma of the larynx after a period of remission.
laryngeal basaloid carcinoma	An aggressive variant of squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the pyriform sinus or supraglottic area. It is characterized by the presence of small malignant cells with hyperchromatic nuclei and scant amount of cytoplasm forming lobules with peripheral palisading. Comedonecrosis may be present. An in situ or invasive keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma component is always present. Signs and symptoms include hoarseness, dysphagia, pain, and neck mass.
obstruction; airway	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
laryngeal carcinosarcoma	A carcinoma that arises from the larynx and is characterized by the presence of a malignant spindle cell cellular component and a squamous cell carcinoma component. The latter is either in situ or invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
disease lung obstructive	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
obstructive airway disease	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
obstructive lung disease	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
respiratory; obstruction	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
pulmonary obstruction	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
obstructive airways disorder	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
obstruction lung disease	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
disease obstructive lung	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
airway; obstruction	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
obstructive pulmonary disease	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
exercise-induced asthma	Asthma attacks following a period of exercise. Usually the induced attack is short-lived and regresses spontaneously. The magnitude of postexertional airway obstruction is strongly influenced by the environment in which exercise is performed (i.e. inhalation of cold air during physical exertion markedly augments the severity of the airway obstruction; conversely, warm humid air blunts or abolishes it).
bronchiolitis obliterans	Inflammation of the BRONCHIOLES leading to an obstructive lung disease. Bronchioles are characterized by fibrous granulation tissue with bronchial exudates in the lumens. Clinical features include a nonproductive cough and DYSPNEA.
trachea; stenosis	A pathological narrowing of the TRACHEA.
obstructed airway	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
emphysema paraseptal	Paraseptal emphysema is characterized by predominant involvement of the distal alveoli and their ducts and sacs. It is characteristically bounded by any pleural surface and the interlobular septa. This emphysema is characterized by subpleural and peribronchovascular regions of low attenuation separated by intact interlobular septa, sometimes associated with bullae. [PMID:18195376]
occlusion	Blockage of a passageway.
respiratory tract	The tubular and cavernous organs and structures, by means of which pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange between ambient air and the blood are brought about.
airways	The part of the respiratory system between the nose or mouth and the lungs.
lung disease obstructive	Any disorder marked by obstruction of conducting airways of the lung. AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION may be acute, chronic, intermittent, or persistent.
airway obstruction nos	Any hindrance to the passage of air into and out of the lungs.
chronic obstructive airway dis	A disease of chronic diffuse irreversible airflow obstruction. Subcategories of COPD include CHRONIC BRONCHITIS and PULMONARY EMPHYSEMA.
reversible pulmonary obstruction	Airflow obstruction with a significant response to a bronchodilator defined as an increase in FEV1 and/or FVC by 12 percent or more and by at least 200 mL. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:16264058]
irreversible pulmonary obstruction	Airflow obstruction without significant response to a bronchodilator defined as an increase in FEV1 and/or FVC by 12 percent or more and by at least 200 mL. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:16264058]
chronic airway disease	A disease of chronic diffuse irreversible airflow obstruction. Subcategories of COPD include CHRONIC BRONCHITIS and PULMONARY EMPHYSEMA.
bronchial asthma	A form of bronchial disorder with three distinct components: airway hyper-responsiveness (RESPIRATORY HYPERSENSITIVITY), airway INFLAMMATION, and intermittent AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION. It is characterized by spasmodic contraction of airway smooth muscle, WHEEZING, and dyspnea (DYSPNEA, PAROXYSMAL).
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome	Inflammation of the BRONCHIOLES leading to an obstructive lung disease. Bronchioles are characterized by fibrous granulation tissue with bronchial exudates in the lumens. Clinical features include a nonproductive cough and DYSPNEA.
trachea narrowed	A pathological narrowing of the TRACHEA.
swyer james syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of a small lung as a result of unilateral post-infectious bronchiolitis obliterans.
respiratory system diseases nos	Diseases of the respiratory system in general or unspecified or for a specific respiratory disease not available.
block	Blockage of a passageway.
airway	The part of the respiratory system between the nose or mouth and the lungs.
airway resistance test	Physiologically, the opposition to flow of air caused by the forces of friction. As a part of pulmonary function testing, it is the ratio of driving pressure to the rate of air flow.
pulmonary function tests	A test used to measure how well the lungs work. It measures how much air the lungs can hold and how quickly air is moved into and out of the lungs. It also measures how much oxygen is used and how much carbon dioxide is given off during breathing. A PFT can be used to diagnose a lung disease and to see how well treatment for the disease is working.
airway resistance	Physiologically, the opposition to flow of air caused by the forces of friction. As a part of pulmonary function testing, it is the ratio of driving pressure to the rate of air flow.
airway resistances	Physiologically, the opposition to flow of air caused by the forces of friction. As a part of pulmonary function testing, it is the ratio of driving pressure to the rate of air flow.
sdtm-retestcd	A terminology codelist based on the test codes for physiological findings related to the respiratory system, including the organs that are involved in breathing such as the nose, throat, larynx, trachea, bronchi and lungs.
ajmaline	An alkaloid found in the root of RAUWOLFIA SERPENTINA, among other plant sources. It is a class 1-A antiarrhythmic agent that apparently acts by changing the shape and threshold of cardiac action potentials.
rauwolfia alkaloids	alkaloids derived from plants of the genus Rauwolfia; have been used in the treatment of hypertension and psychoses.
voltage-gated sodium channel antagonists	A class of drugs that inhibit the activation of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
voltage gated sodium channel antagonists	A class of drugs that inhibit the activation of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
ajmalin	An alkaloid found in the root of RAUWOLFIA SERPENTINA, among other plant sources. It is a class 1-A antiarrhythmic agent that apparently acts by changing the shape and threshold of cardiac action potentials.
agents antiarrhythmic	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
voltage gated sodium channel inhibitors	A class of drugs that inhibit the activation of VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS.
antiarrhythmic drugs	Agents used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias. They may affect the polarization-repolarization phase of the action potential, its excitability or refractoriness, or impulse conduction or membrane responsiveness within cardiac fibers. Anti-arrhythmia agents are often classed into four main groups according to their mechanism of action: sodium channel blockade, beta-adrenergic blockade, repolarization prolongation, or calcium channel blockade.
coma vigilans	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
akinetic mutism	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
akinetic autism	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
coma vigil	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
decrease in consciousness	A neurologic state characterized by decreased ability to perceive and respond. (NCI)
akinetic; mutism	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
consciousness decreased	A neurologic state characterized by decreased ability to perceive and respond. (NCI)
akinetic mutisms	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
locking syndrome	Acquired neuromuscular disorder characterized by complete paralysis of voluntary muscles and lower CRANIAL NERVES except for limited voluntary eye movements. It is due to various cerebrospinal disconnections at or near the PONS and the POSTERIOR CRANIAL FOSSA, typically secondary to pontine hemorrhage or infarct. Because cognitive function is intact it is sometimes referred to as a pseudocoma state.
locked-in state	Acquired neuromuscular disorder characterized by complete paralysis of voluntary muscles and lower CRANIAL NERVES except for limited voluntary eye movements. It is due to various cerebrospinal disconnections at or near the PONS and the POSTERIOR CRANIAL FOSSA, typically secondary to pontine hemorrhage or infarct. Because cognitive function is intact it is sometimes referred to as a pseudocoma state.
depressed level of consciousness	A neurologic state characterized by decreased ability to perceive and respond. (NCI)
agrypnodal coma	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
locked-in syndrome	Acquired neuromuscular disorder characterized by complete paralysis of voluntary muscles and lower CRANIAL NERVES except for limited voluntary eye movements. It is due to various cerebrospinal disconnections at or near the PONS and the POSTERIOR CRANIAL FOSSA, typically secondary to pontine hemorrhage or infarct. Because cognitive function is intact it is sometimes referred to as a pseudocoma state.
able with difficulty	Something not easily done, accomplished, comprehended, or solved.
difficult	Something not easily done, accomplished, comprehended, or solved.
level of consciousness depressed	A neurologic state characterized by decreased ability to perceive and respond. (NCI)
disorders musculoskeletal system	Diseases of the muscles and their associated ligaments and other connective tissue and of the bones and cartilage viewed collectively.
mutism akinetic	A syndrome characterized by a silent and inert state without voluntary motor activity despite preserved sensorimotor pathways and vigilance. Bilateral FRONTAL LOBE dysfunction involving the anterior cingulate gyrus and related brain injuries are associated with this condition. This may result in impaired abilities to communicate and initiate motor activities. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p348; Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr 1995 Feb;63(2):59-67)
difficulty	Something not easily done, accomplished, comprehended, or solved.
alamethicin	A cyclic nonadecapeptide antibiotic that can act as an ionophore and is produced by strains of Trichoderma viride. (From Singleton & Sainsbury, Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, 2d ed)
ionophores	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of biological or artificial lipid membranes to specific ions. Most ionophores are relatively small organic molecules that act as mobile carriers within membranes or coalesce to form ion permeable channels across membranes. Many are antibiotics, and many act as uncoupling agents by short-circuiting the proton gradient across mitochondrial membranes.
ionophore	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of biological or artificial lipid membranes to specific ions. Most ionophores are relatively small organic molecules that act as mobile carriers within membranes or coalesce to form ion permeable channels across membranes. Many are antibiotics, and many act as uncoupling agents by short-circuiting the proton gradient across mitochondrial membranes.
uncoupling agents	Chemical agents that uncouple oxidation from phosphorylation in the metabolic cycle so that ATP synthesis does not occur. Included here are those IONOPHORES that disrupt electron transfer by short-circuiting the proton gradient across mitochondrial membranes.
anti bacterial compound	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
antibacterials	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
alanosine	A substance that is being studied in the treatment of cancer. It belongs to the family of drugs called antimetabolites.
brivanib	A substance being studied in the treatment of cancer. Brivanib may prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow and may kill cancer cells. It is a type of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 inhibitor and a type of antiangiogenesis agent.
l-alanine	A non-essential amino acid that occurs in high levels in its free state in plasma. It is produced from pyruvate by transamination. It is involved in sugar and acid metabolism, increases IMMUNITY, and provides energy for muscle tissue, BRAIN, and the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
amino acid preparation	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
anuria	Absence of urine formation. It is usually associated with complete bilateral ureteral (URETER) obstruction, complete lower urinary tract obstruction, or unilateral ureteral obstruction when a solitary kidney is present.
hyperammonemia	Elevated level of AMMONIA in the blood. It is a sign of defective CATABOLISM of AMINO ACIDS or ammonia to UREA.
neutral amino acid	Aminosyror med oladdade R-grupper eller sidokedjor.
alanine levels	A measurement of the alanine in a biological specimen.
nonessential amino acid	Amino acid which can be readily made by the human body in sufficient amounts.
dietary amino acid	A class of twenty organic compounds which are the building blocks for proteins, found in food. Each has a central carbon with an amino group (-NH2), a carboxyl (-COOH) group and a side chain attached.
alanine aminotransferase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of L-alanine and 2-oxoglutarate to pyruvate and L-glutamate. (From Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.6.1.2.
transaminase	A subclass of enzymes of the transferase class that catalyze the transfer of an amino group from a donor (generally an amino acid) to an acceptor (generally a 2-keto acid). Most of these enzymes are pyridoxyl phosphate proteins. (Dorland, 28th ed) EC 2.6.1.
protein metabolism	The chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein. Includes protein modification. [GOC:ma]
serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of L-alanine and 2-oxoglutarate to pyruvate and L-glutamate. (From Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.6.1.2.
substrate interaction domain	A Substrate Domain is a protein region that physically interacts stereospecifically, and usually at high affinity, with a specific target substrate. In enzymes, the substrate domain is often, though not necessarily, coincident with the catalytic domain. Typically, substrate interaction results in some protein conformational alteration and functional modification. (NCI)
alat - alanine aminotransferase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of L-alanine and 2-oxoglutarate to pyruvate and L-glutamate. (From Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.6.1.2.
glutamic pyruvate transaminase measurement	A quantitative measurement of alanine aminotransferase present in a sample.
alt measurement	A quantitative measurement of alanine aminotransferase present in a sample.
alanine racemase	A pyridoxal-phosphate protein that reversibly catalyzes the conversion of L-alanine to D-alanine. EC 5.1.1.1.
isomerase	A class of enzymes that catalyze geometric or structural changes within a molecule to form a single product. The reactions do not involve a net change in the concentrations of compounds other than the substrate and the product.(from Dorland, 28th ed) EC 5.
alanine trna ligase	An enzyme that activates alanine with its specific transfer RNA. EC 6.1.1.7.
alaska	constituent state of the United States of America; it lies at the extreme northwest of the North American continent and is the largest peninsula in the Western Hemisphere.
u.s.a.	A country in NORTH AMERICA between CANADA and MEXICO.
alastrim	A orthopoxvirus that causes a milder clinical syndrome than smallpox.
smallpox	An acute, highly contagious, often fatal infectious disease caused by an orthopoxvirus characterized by a biphasic febrile course and distinctive progressive skin eruptions. Vaccination has succeeded in eradicating smallpox worldwide. (Dorland, 28th ed)
variola	An acute, highly contagious, often fatal infectious disease caused by an orthopoxvirus characterized by a biphasic febrile course and distinctive progressive skin eruptions. Vaccination has succeeded in eradicating smallpox worldwide. (Dorland, 28th ed)
variola minor	A orthopoxvirus that causes a milder clinical syndrome than smallpox.
small pox	An acute, highly contagious, often fatal infectious disease caused by an orthopoxvirus characterized by a biphasic febrile course and distinctive progressive skin eruptions. Vaccination has succeeded in eradicating smallpox worldwide. (Dorland, 28th ed)
variola minors	A orthopoxvirus that causes a milder clinical syndrome than smallpox.
variola major	An acute, highly contagious, often fatal infectious disease caused by an orthopoxvirus characterized by a biphasic febrile course and distinctive progressive skin eruptions. Vaccination has succeeded in eradicating smallpox worldwide. (Dorland, 28th ed)
kaffir pox	A orthopoxvirus that causes a milder clinical syndrome than smallpox.
virus	Minute infectious agents whose genomes are composed of DNA or RNA, but not both. They are characterized by a lack of independent metabolism and the inability to replicate outside living host cells.
amaas	A orthopoxvirus that causes a milder clinical syndrome than smallpox.
viral illness	A general term for diseases caused by viruses.
albania	A country in Europe, on the Adriatic Sea. The capital is Tirana
country	<p>Countries of the world. ISO 3166, part 1, alpha-3 set.</p>
europe	continent between Asia and the Atlantic Ocean.
cdisc sdtm country terminology	A collective generic term that refers here to a wide variety of dependencies, areas of special sovereignty, uninhabited islands, and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states. (NCI)
albanian language	An Indo-European language that is an official language in Albania and Kosovo.
indo-european language	A family of languages that developed and spread within the Indian subcontinent in the east to its westernmost reach in Europe.
albanian	An Indo-European language that is an official language in Albania and Kosovo.
albendazole - chemical	A benzimidazole broad-spectrum anthelmintic structurally related to MEBENDAZOLE that is effective against many diseases. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p38)
anthelmintic agent	Agents that kill parasitic worms. They are used therapeutically in the treatment of HELMINTHIASIS in man and animal.
albendazole	A benzimidazole broad-spectrum anthelmintic structurally related to MEBENDAZOLE that is effective against many diseases. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p38)
anticestodal agents	Agents used to treat tapeworm infestations in man or animals.
antiprotozoal drugs	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
antihelminthics	Agents that kill parasitic worms. They are used therapeutically in the treatment of HELMINTHIASIS in man and animal.
microtubule modulators	Midler som reagerer med TUBULIN for å hemme eller fremme polymerisasjon av MIKROTUBULI.
albendazol	A benzimidazole broad-spectrum anthelmintic structurally related to MEBENDAZOLE that is effective against many diseases. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p38)
microtubule inhibitor product	Midler som reagerer med TUBULIN for å hemme eller fremme polymerisasjon av MIKROTUBULI.
anthelmintic product	Agents that kill parasitic worms. They are used therapeutically in the treatment of HELMINTHIASIS in man and animal.
anthelmintics	Agents that kill parasitic worms. They are used therapeutically in the treatment of HELMINTHIASIS in man and animal.
ancylostomosis	Infection of humans or animals with hookworms of the genus ANCYLOSTOMA. Characteristics include anemia, dyspepsia, eosinophilia, and abdominal swelling.
antihelminthic	Agents that kill parasitic worms. They are used therapeutically in the treatment of HELMINTHIASIS in man and animal.
clonorchis sinensis infections	Infection of the biliary passages with CLONORCHIS SINENSIS, also called Opisthorchis sinensis. It may lead to inflammation of the biliary tract, proliferation of biliary epithelium, progressive portal fibrosis, and sometimes bile duct carcinoma. Extension to the liver may lead to fatty changes and cirrhosis. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
colitis - giardial	An infection of the SMALL INTESTINE caused by the flagellated protozoan GIARDIA. It is spread via contaminated food and water and by direct person-to-person contact.
hymenolepiasis	Infection with tapeworms of the genus Hymenolepis.
opisthorchiosis	Infection with flukes of the genus Opisthorchis.
toxocariases	Infection by round worms of the genus TOXOCARA, usually found in wild and domesticated cats and dogs and foxes, except for the larvae, which may produce visceral and ocular larva migrans in man.
trichuriasis	Infection with nematodes of the genus TRICHURIS, formerly called Trichocephalus.
neurocoenuroses	Infection of the brain, spinal cord, or perimeningeal structures with the larval forms of the genus TAENIA (primarily T. solium in humans). Lesions formed by the organism are referred to as cysticerci. The infection may be subacute or chronic, and the severity of symptoms depends on the severity of the host immune response and the location and number of lesions. SEIZURES represent the most common clinical manifestation although focal neurologic deficits may occur. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1998, Ch27, pp46-50)
antihelminthic agent [tc]	Agents that kill parasitic worms. They are used therapeutically in the treatment of HELMINTHIASIS in man and animal.
product containing albendazole	A benzimidazole broad-spectrum anthelmintic structurally related to MEBENDAZOLE that is effective against many diseases. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p38)
anthelminthics	Agents that kill parasitic worms. They are used therapeutically in the treatment of HELMINTHIASIS in man and animal.
antiprotozoal drug	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
albendazolum	A benzimidazole broad-spectrum anthelmintic structurally related to MEBENDAZOLE that is effective against many diseases. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p38)
antiprotozoal agents	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
alberta	A province of western Canada, lying between the provinces of British Columbia and Saskatchewan. Its capital is Edmonton. It was named in honor of Princess Louise Caroline Alberta, the fourth daughter of Queen Victoria. (From Webster's New Geographical Dictionary, 1988, p26 & Room, Brewer's Dictionary of Names, 1992, p12)
canada	North American country north of the United States of America; capital city is Ottawa.
chediak-higashi syndrome	A form of phagocyte bactericidal dysfunction characterized by unusual oculocutaneous albinism, high incidence of lymphoreticular neoplasms, and recurrent pyogenic infections. In many cell types, abnormal lysosomes are present leading to defective pigment distribution and abnormal neutrophil functions. The disease is transmitted by autosomal recessive inheritance and a similar disorder occurs in the beige mouse, the Aleutian mink, and albino Hereford cattle.
albinismus universalis	Heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive disorders comprising at least four recognized types, all having in common varying degrees of hypopigmentation of the skin, hair, and eyes. The two most common are the tyrosinase-positive and tyrosinase-negative types.
cutaneous albinism	Autosomal dominant, congenital disorder characterized by localized hypomelanosis of the skin and hair. The most familiar feature is a white forelock presenting in 80 to 90 percent of the patients. The underlying defect is possibly related to the differentiation and migration of melanoblasts, as well as to defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy). Piebaldism may be closely related to WAARDENBURG SYNDROME.
chediak higashi disease attenuated	A very rare and atypical form of Chédiak-Higashi syndrome, a genetic disorder with characteristics of partial oculocutaneous albinism, severe immunodeficiency, mild bleeding, neurological dysfunction and lymphoproliferative disorder. Missense mutations in the LYST lysosomal gene (1q42.1-q42.2) appear to cause this form of Chédiak-Higashi syndrome. Inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
methoxsalen	A naturally occurring furocoumarin compound found in several species of plants, including Psoralea corylifolia. It is a photoactive substance that forms DNA ADDUCTS in the presence of ultraviolet A irradiation.
trioxsalen	Pigmenting photosensitizing agent obtained from several plants, mainly Psoralea corylifolia. It is administered either topically or orally in conjunction with ultraviolet light in the treatment of vitiligo.
albinism with hemorrhagic diathesis	Syndrome characterized by the triad of oculocutaneous albinism (ALBINISM, OCULOCUTANEOUS); PLATELET STORAGE POOL DEFICIENCY; and lysosomal accumulation of ceroid lipofuscin.
oculocutaneous albinism	Heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive disorders comprising at least four recognized types, all having in common varying degrees of hypopigmentation of the skin, hair, and eyes. The two most common are the tyrosinase-positive and tyrosinase-negative types.
albino	General term for a number of inherited defects of amino acid metabolism in which there is a deficiency or absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, or hair.
hermansky pudlak syndrome	Syndrome characterized by the triad of oculocutaneous albinism (ALBINISM, OCULOCUTANEOUS); PLATELET STORAGE POOL DEFICIENCY; and lysosomal accumulation of ceroid lipofuscin.
partial absent skin pigmentation	Autosomal dominant, congenital disorder characterized by localized hypomelanosis of the skin and hair. The most familiar feature is a white forelock presenting in 80 to 90 percent of the patients. The underlying defect is possibly related to the differentiation and migration of melanoblasts, as well as to defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy). Piebaldism may be closely related to WAARDENBURG SYNDROME.
disorder of globe	Diseases affecting the eye.
inborn errors of metabolism	Errors in metabolic processes resulting from inborn genetic mutations that are inherited or acquired in utero.
pigmentation disorders	Diseases affecting PIGMENTATION, including SKIN PIGMENTATION.
ocular structure	Organ with organ cavity which is connected to the optic nerve. Examples: There are only two eyeballs, the right and the left eyeballs..
subdivision of skin	Organ segment which is regional part of skin. Examples: skin of head, skin of limb.
absent pigmentation in the eye	Albinism affecting the eye in which pigment of the hair and skin is normal or only slightly diluted. The classic type is X-linked (Nettleship-Falls), but an autosomal recessive form also exists. Ocular abnormalities may include reduced pigmentation of the iris, nystagmus, photophobia, strabismus, and decreased visual acuity.
partial albinism	Autosomal dominant, congenital disorder characterized by localized hypomelanosis of the skin and hair. The most familiar feature is a white forelock presenting in 80 to 90 percent of the patients. The underlying defect is possibly related to the differentiation and migration of melanoblasts, as well as to defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy). Piebaldism may be closely related to WAARDENBURG SYNDROME.
congenital anomaly of eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
disorders of globe	Diseases affecting the eye.
hypomelanosis	A condition caused by a deficiency or a loss of melanin pigmentation in the epidermis, also known as hypomelanosis. Hypopigmentation can be localized or generalized, and may result from genetic defects, trauma, inflammation, or infections.
skin segment	Organ segment which is regional part of skin. Examples: skin of head, skin of limb.
regio orbitalis	Subdivision of face which has as its direct parts orbital cavity and its content and eyelids.
albumin	Water-soluble proteins found in egg whites, blood, lymph, and other tissues and fluids. They coagulate upon heating.
alb-ifn	A long-acting, recombinant fusion polypeptide consisting of interferon alpha-2b (IFNa-2b) linked to human albumin (alb-IFN), with antiviral and immunomodulatory activity. Albinterferon alpha-2b binds to specific cell-surface receptors, resulting in the expression of genes whose protein products mediate antiviral, antiproliferative, and immune-modulating effects. Conjugation of interferon to human albumin prolongs the half-life of IFNa-2b and thereby allows for a reduction in the frequency of dosing.
albuminuria	The presence of albumin in the urine, an indicator of KIDNEY DISEASES.
albumins	Water-soluble proteins found in egg whites, blood, lymph, and other tissues and fluids. They coagulate upon heating.
methaemalbumin	A 1:1 molar complex of heme or hematin and albumin formed after the dissociation of methemoglobin into heme or hematin and globin in plasma. This complex, which imparts a coffee-brown color to plasma, occurs in hemolytic and hemorrhagic disorders. Its presence in plasma is used as a test to differentiate between hemorrhagic and edematous pancreatitis.
prealbumin	A tetrameric protein, molecular weight between 50,000 and 70,000, consisting of 4 equal chains, and migrating on electrophoresis in 3 fractions more mobile than serum albumin. Its concentration ranges from 7 to 33 per cent in the serum, but levels decrease in liver disease.
albumin bovine	Serum albumin from cows, commonly used in in vitro biological studies. (From Stedman, 25th ed)
protein-bound paclitaxel	An injectable formulation of albumin-bound paclitaxel NANOPARTICLES.
advanced oxidation protein products	A class of dityrosine-containing protein-derived molecules formed by OXIDATIVE STRESS. Their accumulation in plasma is associated with certain pathological conditions.
gene product	Linear POLYPEPTIDES that are synthesized on RIBOSOMES and may be further modified, crosslinked, cleaved, or assembled into complex proteins with several subunits. The specific sequence of AMINO ACIDS determines the shape the polypeptide will take, during PROTEIN FOLDING, and the function of the protein.
microalbumin	A quantitative measurement of albumin present in a sample.
albumin measurements	A quantitative measurement of albumin present in a sample.
serum albumin level	A quantitative measurement of the amount of albumin present in a sample of serum.
serum albumin	A major protein in the BLOOD. It is important in maintaining the colloidal osmotic pressure and transporting large organic molecules.
transthyretin	A tetrameric protein, molecular weight between 50,000 and 70,000, consisting of 4 equal chains, and migrating on electrophoresis in 3 fractions more mobile than serum albumin. Its concentration ranges from 7 to 33 per cent in the serum, but levels decrease in liver disease.
bovine serum albumin product	Serum albumin from cows, commonly used in in vitro biological studies. (From Stedman, 25th ed)
human albumin	Serum albumin from humans. It is an essential carrier of both endogenous substances, such as fatty acids and BILIRUBIN, and of XENOBITOICS in the blood.
human serum albumin	Serum albumin from humans. It is an essential carrier of both endogenous substances, such as fatty acids and BILIRUBIN, and of XENOBITOICS in the blood.
albumin bound paclitaxel	An injectable formulation of albumin-bound paclitaxel NANOPARTICLES.
aopps	A class of dityrosine-containing protein-derived molecules formed by OXIDATIVE STRESS. Their accumulation in plasma is associated with certain pathological conditions.
hematologic agents	Drugs that act on blood and blood-forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system.
proteinurias	The presence of proteins in the urine, an indicator of KIDNEY DISEASES.
proteinuria	The presence of proteins in the urine, an indicator of KIDNEY DISEASES.
protein urine positive	The presence of proteins in the urine, an indicator of KIDNEY DISEASES.
high urine albumin levels	The presence of moderately increased concentrations of albumin in the urine, defined as and albumin-creatinine ratio (ACR) of 30 to 299 mg/gm (3.4 to 34 mg/mmol). [Eurenomics:fschaefer, PMID:30571025]
mild albuminuria	The presence of mildly increased concentrations of albumin in the urine, defined as an albumin-creatinine ratio (ACR) less than 30 mg/gm (less than 3.4 mg/mmol). [PMID:30571025]
severe albuminuria	The presence of severely increased concentrations of albumin in the urine, defined as an albumin-creatinine ratio greater than 300 mg/gm (greater than 34 mg/mmol). [PMID:30571025]
[d]albuminuria	The presence of albumin in the urine, an indicator of KIDNEY DISEASES.
abnormal urine protein level	Any deviation of the concentration of one or more proteins in the urine. []
albumin level	A finding that indicates the amount of albumin in a sample.
found	Being or existing in a specified place or at the specified time.
present	Being or existing in a specified place or at the specified time.
intervention	In medicine, a treatment or action taken to prevent or treat disease, or improve health in other ways.
urine screening abnormal	A laboratory test result indicating a finding outside the parameters of normal urine measurements.
sparfloxacin	A fluoroquinolone antibiotic that inhibits bacterial DNA gyrase, thereby inhibiting DNA replication and transcription. Sparfloxacin was withdrawn from the U.S. market due to a high incidence of phototoxicity.
bronchodilator agent	Agents that cause an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes.
tocolytic	Drugs that prevent preterm labor and immature birth by suppressing uterine contractions (TOCOLYSIS). Agents used to delay premature uterine activity include magnesium sulfate, beta-mimetics, oxytocin antagonists, calcium channel inhibitors, and adrenergic beta-receptor agonists. The use of intravenous alcohol as a tocolytic is now obsolete.
salbutamol	A short-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist that is primarily used as a bronchodilator agent to treat ASTHMA. Albuterol is prepared as a racemic mixture of R(-) and S(+) stereoisomers. The stereospecific preparation of R(-) isomer of albuterol is referred to as levalbuterol.
bronchial-dilating agents	Agents that cause an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes.
tocolytic agent	Drugs that prevent preterm labor and immature birth by suppressing uterine contractions (TOCOLYSIS). Agents used to delay premature uterine activity include magnesium sulfate, beta-mimetics, oxytocin antagonists, calcium channel inhibitors, and adrenergic beta-receptor agonists. The use of intravenous alcohol as a tocolytic is now obsolete.
salbutamolum	A short-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist that is primarily used as a bronchodilator agent to treat ASTHMA. Albuterol is prepared as a racemic mixture of R(-) and S(+) stereoisomers. The stereospecific preparation of R(-) isomer of albuterol is referred to as levalbuterol.
lumen dilator	Agents that cause an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes.
tocolytic drug	Drugs that prevent preterm labor and immature birth by suppressing uterine contractions (TOCOLYSIS). Agents used to delay premature uterine activity include magnesium sulfate, beta-mimetics, oxytocin antagonists, calcium channel inhibitors, and adrenergic beta-receptor agonists. The use of intravenous alcohol as a tocolytic is now obsolete.
ethanolamine	amino alcohols containing the ethanolamine (-NH2CH2CHOH) group and its derivatives.
albuterol sulfate	The sulfate salt of the short-acting sympathomimetic agent albuterol, a 1:1 racemic mixture of (R)-albuterol and (S)-albuterol with bronchodilator activity. Albuterol stimulates beta2-adrenergic receptors in the lungs, thereby activating the enzyme adenylate cyclase that catalyzes the conversion of ATP to cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Increased cAMP concentrations relax bronchial smooth muscle, relieve bronchospasms, and reduce inflammatory cell mediator release, especially from mast cells. To a lesser extent albuterol stimulates beta1-adrenergic receptors, thereby increasing the force and rate of myocardial contraction.
salbutamol + ipratropium	A combined pharmaceutical preparation of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate that is used to treat the symptoms of ASTHMA and CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE.
albuterol product	A short-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist that is primarily used as a bronchodilator agent to treat ASTHMA. Albuterol is prepared as a racemic mixture of R(-) and S(+) stereoisomers. The stereospecific preparation of R(-) isomer of albuterol is referred to as levalbuterol.
albuterol ipratropium	A combined pharmaceutical preparation of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate that is used to treat the symptoms of ASTHMA and CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE.
bronchodilator	Agents that cause an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes.
product containing albuterol	A short-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist that is primarily used as a bronchodilator agent to treat ASTHMA. Albuterol is prepared as a racemic mixture of R(-) and S(+) stereoisomers. The stereospecific preparation of R(-) isomer of albuterol is referred to as levalbuterol.
product containing ipratropium and salbutamol	A combined pharmaceutical preparation of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate that is used to treat the symptoms of ASTHMA and CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE.
constriction; bronchus	Spasmodic contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi.
bronchospasm	Spasmodic contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi.
renal excretion [pk]	The discharge of substances from the blood supply via the URINARY TRACT.
bronchodilators albuterol	A short-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist that is primarily used as a bronchodilator agent to treat ASTHMA. Albuterol is prepared as a racemic mixture of R(-) and S(+) stereoisomers. The stereospecific preparation of R(-) isomer of albuterol is referred to as levalbuterol.
tocolytics	Drugs that prevent preterm labor and immature birth by suppressing uterine contractions (TOCOLYSIS). Agents used to delay premature uterine activity include magnesium sulfate, beta-mimetics, oxytocin antagonists, calcium channel inhibitors, and adrenergic beta-receptor agonists. The use of intravenous alcohol as a tocolytic is now obsolete.
alcaligenes	A genus of gram-negative, aerobic, motile bacteria that occur in water and soil. Some are common inhabitants of the intestinal tract of vertebrates. These bacteria occasionally cause opportunistic infections in humans.
genus alcaligenes	A genus of gram-negative, aerobic, motile bacteria that occur in water and soil. Some are common inhabitants of the intestinal tract of vertebrates. These bacteria occasionally cause opportunistic infections in humans.
alcaligenes odorans	Typový druh gramnegativních bakterií rodu ALCALIGENES, který se nachází v půdě. Je nepatogenní, nepigmentovaný a používá se k produkci aminokyselin.
achromobacter piechaudii	Any bacterial organism that can be assigned to the species Achromobacter piechaudii.
aerobic gram-negative rod	Any rod shaped bacteria with an oxygen based metabolism and has a cell wall that contains low levels of peptidoglycan and stains pink with the Gram staining technique.
alcaligenes species	A genus of gram-negative, aerobic, motile bacteria that occur in water and soil. Some are common inhabitants of the intestinal tract of vertebrates. These bacteria occasionally cause opportunistic infections in humans.
ralstonia	Rod bakterií čeledi Burkholderiaceae zahrnující mnoho druhů. Způsobují různé infekce včetně meningitidy, peritonitidy a infekcí močového ústrojí.
alcian blue stain	A copper-containing dye used as a gelling agent for lubricants, for staining of bacteria and for the dyeing of histiocytes and fibroblasts in vivo.
coloring agents	Kemiska ämnen som släpper ifrån sig färg, både lösningsbara och permanenta pigment. De används i bläck och målarfärg samt som indikatorer och reagenser.
alcian blue	A copper-containing dye used as a gelling agent for lubricants, for staining of bacteria and for the dyeing of histiocytes and fibroblasts in vivo.
pentachrome stain.movat	<p>Stain, Movat pentachrome</p>
coloring agent	Kemiska ämnen som släpper ifrån sig färg, både lösningsbara och permanenta pigment. De används i bläck och målarfärg samt som indikatorer och reagenser.
sulfated alcian blue stain method	<p>Stain, Sulfated alcian blue</p>
sulfated alcian blue stain	<p>Stain, Sulfated alcian blue</p>
alcohol induced amnestic syndrome	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakoff syndrome	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol ind persisting amnestic dis	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakoff's syndrome	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol induced persisting amnestic disorder	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakov psychosis	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol ind amnestic psychosis	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakoff's psychosis	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol amnestic dis	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol-induced dysmnesic syndromes	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol-induced persisting amnestic disorder	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol; amnestic syndrome	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
medicines	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
alcohol ind dysmnesic syndrome	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakoff psychoses	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol amnestic syndrome nos	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
pharmaceutical product	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
alcoholic korsakoff syndrome	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakov	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol induced dysmnesic syndrome	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakoffs psychosis	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakoff psychosis	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakov's syndrome	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol-induced amnestic syndromes	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol amnestic syndrome	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakov syndrome - alcoholic	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
amnesic syndrome due to alcohol	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
korsakov's psychosis	An acquired cognitive disorder characterized by inattentiveness and the inability to form short term memories. This disorder is frequently associated with chronic ALCOHOLISM; but it may also result from dietary deficiencies; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; NEOPLASMS; CEREBROVASCULAR DISORDERS; ENCEPHALITIS; EPILEPSY; and other conditions. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcoholic intox chronic	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol-induced dysmnesic psychoses	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
chronic alcoholism	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol addiction	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcoholism	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol-induced dysmnesic syndrome	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
alcohol dehydrogenase	A zinc-containing enzyme which oxidizes primary and secondary alcohols or hemiacetals in the presence of NAD. In alcoholic fermentation, it catalyzes the final step of reducing an aldehyde to an alcohol in the presence of NADH and hydrogen.
dehydrogenase	The class of all enzymes catalyzing oxidoreduction reactions. The substrate that is oxidized is regarded as a hydrogen donor. The systematic name is based on donor:acceptor oxidoreductase. The recommended name will be dehydrogenase, wherever this is possible; as an alternative, reductase can be used. Oxidase is only used in cases where O2 is the acceptor. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992, p9)
alcohol dehydrogenase family	A zinc-containing enzyme which oxidizes primary and secondary alcohols or hemiacetals in the presence of NAD. In alcoholic fermentation, it catalyzes the final step of reducing an aldehyde to an alcohol in the presence of NADH and hydrogen.
ethanol metabolism	The chemical reactions and pathways involving ethanol, CH3-CH2-OH, a colorless, water-miscible, flammable liquid produced by alcoholic fermentation. [GOC:ai, ISBN:0198506732]
alcohol metabolism modifier	Substances interfering with the metabolism of ethyl alcohol, causing unpleasant side effects thought to discourage the drinking of alcoholic beverages. Alcohol deterrents are used in the treatment of alcoholism.
naltrexone	Derivative of noroxymorphone that is the N-cyclopropylmethyl congener of NALOXONE. It is a narcotic antagonist that is effective orally, longer lasting and more potent than naloxone, and has been proposed for the treatment of heroin addiction. The FDA has approved naltrexone for the treatment of alcohol dependence.
disulfiram	A carbamate derivative used as an alcohol deterrent. It is a relatively nontoxic substance when administered alone, but markedly alters the intermediary metabolism of alcohol. When alcohol is ingested after administration of disulfiram, blood acetaldehyde concentrations are increased, followed by flushing, systemic vasodilation, respiratory difficulties, nausea, hypotension, and other symptoms (acetaldehyde syndrome). It acts by inhibiting aldehyde dehydrogenase.
alcoholism antagonist	Substances interfering with the metabolism of ethyl alcohol, causing unpleasant side effects thought to discourage the drinking of alcoholic beverages. Alcohol deterrents are used in the treatment of alcoholism.
alcohol deterrents	Substances interfering with the metabolism of ethyl alcohol, causing unpleasant side effects thought to discourage the drinking of alcoholic beverages. Alcohol deterrents are used in the treatment of alcoholism.
anti-alcohol medications	Substances interfering with the metabolism of ethyl alcohol, causing unpleasant side effects thought to discourage the drinking of alcoholic beverages. Alcohol deterrents are used in the treatment of alcoholism.
acamprosate	calcium salt of N-acetylhomotaurine; an adjunct to psychotherapy in maintaining abstinence after alcohol withdrawal in patients with alcohol dependence.
disulphiram product	A carbamate derivative used as an alcohol deterrent. It is a relatively nontoxic substance when administered alone, but markedly alters the intermediary metabolism of alcohol. When alcohol is ingested after administration of disulfiram, blood acetaldehyde concentrations are increased, followed by flushing, systemic vasodilation, respiratory difficulties, nausea, hypotension, and other symptoms (acetaldehyde syndrome). It acts by inhibiting aldehyde dehydrogenase.
central nervous system agent	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
cns drugs	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
cn drugs	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
central medications nervous system	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
cns agents	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
naltrexona	Derivative of noroxymorphone that is the N-cyclopropylmethyl congener of NALOXONE. It is a narcotic antagonist that is effective orally, longer lasting and more potent than naloxone, and has been proposed for the treatment of heroin addiction. The FDA has approved naltrexone for the treatment of alcohol dependence.
disulphiram	A carbamate derivative used as an alcohol deterrent. It is a relatively nontoxic substance when administered alone, but markedly alters the intermediary metabolism of alcohol. When alcohol is ingested after administration of disulfiram, blood acetaldehyde concentrations are increased, followed by flushing, systemic vasodilation, respiratory difficulties, nausea, hypotension, and other symptoms (acetaldehyde syndrome). It acts by inhibiting aldehyde dehydrogenase.
alcohol drinking	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
drinking	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
sodium oxybutyrate	The sodium salt of 4-hydroxybutyric acid. It is used for both induction and maintenance of ANESTHESIA.
alcohol consumption	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
benzonidazole	A nitroimidazole derivative having an antiprotozoal activity by interfering with parasite protein biosynthesis, influencing cytokines production and stimulating host phagocytosis. (NCI)
flibanserin	An orally bioavailable, non-hormonal, multifunctional serotonin agonist and antagonist (MSAA) that may improve sexual desire and arousal in women. Upon oral administration, flibanserin selectively binds to serotonin receptors in the central nervous system, acting as an agonist on 5-HT1A receptors and an antagonist on 5-HT2A receptors. Agonist activity at 5-HT1A postsynaptic receptors may enhance the release of dopamine and other monoamines. Combined with 5-HT2A antagonism, flibanserin boosts levels of dopamine in the mesocortical area of the prefrontal cortex and produces a net increase of norepinephrine selectively in the prefrontal cortex through disinhibition of locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons. In addition, flibanserin reduces concentrations of serotonin in the prefrontal cortex with chronic administration. Reducing serotonin, which modulates sexual activity in an inhibitory fashion through downstream decreases in dopamine release, while enhancing the release of norepinephrine and dopamine in the prefrontal cortex may improve sexual desire and interest.
alcohol use	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
ethanol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
youth alcohol consumption	<p>Alcohol is the most widely misused substance among America's youth. Drinking by young people has big health and safety risks. It is dangerous because it</p> <ul> <li>Causes many deaths and injuries</li> <li>Can lead to poor decisions about engaging in risky behavior, such as drinking and driving or unprotected sex</li> <li>Increases the risk of physical and sexual assault</li> <li>Can lead to other problems, such as trouble in school</li> <li>May interfere with brain development</li> <li>Increases the risk of alcohol problems later in life</li> </ul> <p>Kids often begin drinking to look "cool" or fit in with their peers. Parents can help their kids avoid alcohol problems. Open communication and conversations about drinking are important. So is being involved in your child's life. Get help for your child if you suspect a drinking problem.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism</p>
state of hypothermia	Lower than normal body temperature, especially in warm-blooded animals.
alcohol consumption nos	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
risk for hypothermia	Susceptible to a failure of thermoregulation that may result in a core body temperature below the normal diurnal range, which may compromise health.
insomnia	<h3>What is insomnia?</h3> <p>Insomnia is a common <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/sleepdisorders.html">sleep disorder</a>. If you have it, you may have trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, or both. As a result, you may get too little sleep or have poor-quality sleep. You may not feel refreshed when you wake up.</p> <h3>What are the types of insomnia?</h3> <p>Insomnia can be acute (short-term) or chronic (ongoing). Acute insomnia is common. Common causes include stress at work, family pressures, or a traumatic event. It usually lasts for days or weeks.</p> <p>Chronic insomnia lasts for a month or longer. Most cases of chronic insomnia are secondary. This means they are the symptom or side effect of some other problem, such as certain medical conditions, medicines, and other sleep disorders. Substances such as <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/caffeine.html">caffeine</a>, tobacco, and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/alcohol.html">alcohol</a> can also be a cause.</p> <p>Sometimes chronic insomnia is the primary problem. This means that it is not caused by something else. Its cause is not well understood, but long-lasting stress, emotional upset, travel and shift work can be factors. Primary insomnia usually lasts more than one month.</p> <h3>Who is at risk for insomnia?</h3> <p>Insomnia is common. It affects women more often than men. You can get it at any age, but older adults are more likely to have it. You are also at higher risk of insomnia if you</p> <ul> <li>Have a lot of <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/stress.html">stress</a></li> <li>Are depressed or have other emotional distress, such as divorce or death of a spouse</li> <li>Have a lower income</li> <li>Work at night or have frequent major shifts in your work hours</li> <li>Travel long distances with time changes</li> <li>Have an <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/healthrisksofaninactivelifestyle.html">inactive lifestyle</a></li> <li>Are African American; research shows that African Americans take longer to fall asleep, don't sleep as well, and have more sleep-related breathing problems than whites.</li> </ul> <h3>What are the symptoms of insomnia?</h3> <p>Symptoms of insomnia include:</p> <ul> <li>Lying awake for a long time before you fall asleep</li> <li>Sleeping for only short periods</li> <li>Being awake for much of the night</li> <li>Feeling as if you haven't slept at all</li> <li>Waking up too early</li> </ul> <h3>What other problems can insomnia cause?</h3> <p>Insomnia can cause daytime sleepiness and a lack of energy. It also can make you feel anxious, depressed, or irritable. You may have trouble focusing on tasks, paying attention, learning, and remembering. Insomnia also can cause other serious problems. For example, it could make you may feel drowsy while driving. This could cause you get into a car accident.</p> <h3>How is insomnia diagnosed?</h3> <p>To diagnose insomnia, your health care provider</p> <ul> <li>Takes your medical history</li> <li>Asks for your sleep history. Your provider will ask you for details about your sleep habits.</li> <li>Does a physical exam, to rule out other medical problems that might cause insomnia</li> <li>May recommend a sleep study. A sleep study measures how well you sleep and how your body responds to sleep problems.</li> </ul> <h3>What are the treatments for insomnia?</h3> <p>Treatments include lifestyle changes, counseling, and medicines:</p> <ul> <li>Lifestyle changes, including <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/healthysleep.html">good sleep habits</a>, often help relieve acute (short-term) insomnia. These changes might make it easier for you to fall asleep and stay asleep.</li> <li>A type of counseling called cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can help relieve the anxiety linked to chronic (ongoing) insomnia</li> <li>Several medicines also can help relieve your insomnia and allow you to re-establish a regular sleep schedule</li> </ul> <p>If your insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem, it's important to treat that problem (if possible).</p> <p class="">NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute</p>
risk for urge urinary incontinence	Susceptible to involuntary passage of urine occurring soon after a strong sensation or urgency to void, which may compromise health.
etoh - alcohol intake	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
at risk for falling	Increased susceptibility to falling, which may cause physical harm and compromise health.
alcohol intake	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
impaired oral mucous membrane integrity	Injury to the lips, soft tissue, buccal cavity, and/or oropharynx.
alcoholic drinks	Drinkable liquids containing ETHANOL.
alcoholic drink	Drinkable liquids containing ETHANOL.
use; alcohol	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
risk factors	An aspect of personal behavior or lifestyle, environmental exposure, inborn or inherited characteristic, which, based on epidemiological evidence, is known to be associated with a health-related condition considered important to prevent.
personal conduct	The observable response of a person.
alcohol withdrawal induced delirium tremens	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
clorazepate dipotassium	A water-soluble benzodiazepine derivative effective in the treatment of anxiety. It has also muscle relaxant and anticonvulsant actions.
alcohol; withdrawal state with delirium	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
diazepam	A benzodiazepine with anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, sedative, muscle relaxant, and amnesic properties and a long duration of action. Its actions are mediated by enhancement of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID activity.
alcohol withdrawal delirium	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
oxazepam	A benzodiazepine used in the treatment of anxiety, alcohol withdrawal, and insomnia.
delirium tremens	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
alcohol related disorders	Disorders related to or resulting from abuse or misuse of alcohol.
pharmaceutic preparations	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
deliria	A disorder characterized by CONFUSION; inattentiveness; disorientation; ILLUSIONS; HALLUCINATIONS; agitation; and in some instances autonomic nervous system overactivity. It may result from toxic/metabolic conditions or structural brain lesions. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp411-2)
alcohol withdrawal syndrome	Processes and symptomatic effects resulting from abstinence from alcohol. Used for both human and animal populations.
alcohol [chemical class]	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
tremens; delirium	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
dependence alcoholism alcohol	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
chronic alcohol abuse	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
delirium; tremens	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
alcohol; addiction	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol dependency	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
absolute ethanol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
methylcarbinol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
carnoy's solution	A general purpose reagent is a chemical reagent that has general laboratory application, that is used to collect, prepare, and examine specimens from the human body for diagnostic histopathology, cytology, and hematology, and that is not labeled or otherwise intended for a specific diagnostic application. General purpose reagents include cytological preservatives, decalcifying reagents, fixatives and adhesives, tissue processing reagents, isotonic solutions, and pH buffers.
hydroxyethane	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
etoh - ethanol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
cns depressants	A very loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system. The major groups included here are ethyl alcohol, anesthetics, hypnotics and sedatives, narcotics, and tranquilizing agents (antipsychotics and antianxiety agents).
local anti-infective agents	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
product containing ethanol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
topical antiinfect agents	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
central nervous system depressants	A very loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system. The major groups included here are ethyl alcohol, anesthetics, hypnotics and sedatives, narcotics, and tranquilizing agents (antipsychotics and antianxiety agents).
ethanol topical application liquid [alcohol]	An aqueous dilution of ethanol containing 70% ethanol by volume.
local anti infective agents	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
cns depress	A very loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system. The major groups included here are ethyl alcohol, anesthetics, hypnotics and sedatives, narcotics, and tranquilizing agents (antipsychotics and antianxiety agents).
product containing ethyl alcohol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
high blood pressure prevention	<p>More than 1 in 3 adults in the U.S. has <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/highbloodpressure.html">high blood pressure</a>, or hypertension. Many of those people don't know they have it, because there are usually no warning signs. This can be dangerous, because high blood pressure can lead to life-threatening conditions like <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/heartattack.html">heart attack</a> or <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/stroke.html">stroke</a>. The good news is that you can often prevent or treat high blood pressure. Early diagnosis and heart-healthy lifestyle changes can keep high blood pressure from seriously damaging your health.</p> <h3>What is blood pressure?</h3> <p>Blood pressure is the force of your blood pushing against the walls of your arteries. Each time your heart beats, it pumps blood into the arteries. Your blood pressure is highest when your heart beats, pumping the blood. This is called systolic pressure. When your heart is at rest, between beats, your blood pressure falls. This is called diastolic pressure.</p> <p>Your blood pressure reading uses these two numbers. Usually the systolic number comes before or above the diastolic number. For example, 120/80 means a systolic of 120 and a diastolic of 80.</p> <h3>How is high blood pressure diagnosed?</h3> <p>High blood pressure usually has no symptoms. So the only way to find out if you have it is to get regular blood pressure checks from your health care provider. Your provider will use a gauge, a stethoscope or electronic sensor, and a blood pressure cuff. He or she will take two or more readings at separate appointments before making a diagnosis.</p> <table class="info-table-1" summary="Healthy and unhealthy blood pressure ranges" width="100%" border="0"> <thead> <tr> <th scope="col" style="width:55%">Blood Pressure Category</th> <th scope="col" style="width:20%">Systolic Blood Pressure</th> <th scope="col" style="width:5%"></th> <th scope="col" style="width:20%">Diastolic Blood Pressure</th> </tr> </thead> <tbody> <tr class="r1"> <td>Normal</td> <td>Less than 120</td> <td><strong>and</strong></td> <td>Less than 80</td> </tr> <tr class="r2"> <td>High Blood Pressure (no other heart risk factors)</td> <td>140 or higher</td> <td><strong>or</strong></td> <td>90 or higher</td> </tr> <tr class="r1"> <td>High Blood Pressure (with other heart risk factors, according to some providers)</td> <td>130 or higher</td> <td><strong>or</strong></td> <td>80 or higher</td> </tr> <tr class="r2"> <td>Dangerously high blood pressure - seek medical care right away</td> <td>180 or higher</td> <td><strong>and</strong></td> <td>120 or higher</td> </tr> </tbody> </table> <br/> <p>For children and teens, the health care provider compares the blood pressure reading to what is normal for other kids who are the same age, height, and gender.</p> <p>People with <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/diabetes.html">diabetes</a> or <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/chronickidneydisease.html">chronic kidney disease</a> should keep their blood pressure below 130/80.</p> <h3>Who is at risk for high blood pressure?</h3> <p>Anyone can develop high blood pressure, but there are certain factors that can increase your risk:</p> <ul> <li><strong>Age</strong> - Blood pressure tends to rise with age</li> <li><strong>Race/Ethnicity</strong> - High blood pressure is more common in African American adults</li> <li><strong>Weight</strong> - People who are overweight or have obesity are more likely to develop high blood pressure</li> <li><strong>Sex</strong> - Before age 55, men are more likely than women to develop high blood pressure. After age 55, women are more likely than men to develop it.</li> <li><strong>Lifestyle</strong> - Certain lifestyle habits can raise your risk for high blood pressure, such as eating too much sodium (salt) or not enough potassium, lack of exercise, drinking too much alcohol, and smoking.</li> <li><strong>Family history</strong> - A family history of high blood pressure raises the risk of developing high blood pressure</li> </ul> <h3>How can I prevent high blood pressure?</h3> <p>You can help prevent high blood pressure by having a healthy lifestyle. This means</p> <ul> <li><strong>Eating a healthy diet.</strong> To help manage your blood pressure, you should limit the amount of <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/sodium.html">sodium</a> (salt) that you eat and increase the amount of <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/potassium.html">potassium</a> in your diet. It is also important to eat foods that are lower in fat, as well as plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. The <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/dasheatingplan.html">DASH eating plan</a> is an example of an eating plan that can help you to lower your blood pressure.</li> <li><strong>Getting regular exercise.</strong> Exercise can help you maintain a healthy weight and lower your blood pressure. You should try to get moderate-intensity aerobic exercise at least 2 and a half hours per week, or vigorous-intensity aerobic exercise for 1 hour and 15 minutes per week. Aerobic exercise, such as brisk walking, is any exercise in which your heart beats harder and you use more oxygen than usual.</li> <li><strong>Being at a healthy weight.</strong> Being overweight or having <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/obesity.html">obesity</a> increases your risk for high blood pressure. Maintaining a healthy weight can help you control high blood pressure and reduce your risk for other health problems.</li> <li><strong>Limiting alcohol.</strong> Drinking too much <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/alcohol.html">alcohol</a> can raise your blood pressure. It also adds extra calories, which may cause weight gain. Men should have no more than two drinks per day, and women only one.</li> <li><strong>Not smoking.</strong> Cigarette smoking raises your blood pressure and puts you at higher risk for heart attack and stroke. If you do not smoke, do not start. If you do smoke, talk to your health care provider for help in finding the best way for you to <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/quittingsmoking.html">quit</a>.</li> <li><strong>Managing stress.</strong> Learning how to relax and manage <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/stress.html">stress</a> can improve your emotional and physical health and lower high blood pressure. Stress management techniques include exercising, listening to music, focusing on something calm or peaceful, and meditating.</li> </ul> <p>If you already have high blood pressure, it is important to prevent it from getting worse or causing complications. You should get regular medical care and follow your prescribed treatment plan. Your plan will include healthy lifestyle habit recommendations and possibly <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/bloodpressuremedicines.html">medicines</a>.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute</p>
etoh - alcohol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
dipsomania	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcoholic liver cirrhosis	FIBROSIS of the hepatic parenchyma due to chronic excess ALCOHOL DRINKING.
drug screen quantitative alcohols	The determination of the amount of ethanol present in a sample.
grain alcohol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
product containing alcohol	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
ethyl alcohol; dependence	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcoholic-induced fatty liver	Lipid infiltration of the hepatic parenchymal cells that is due to ALCOHOL ABUSE. The fatty changes in the alcoholic fatty liver may be reversible, depending on the amounts of TRIGLYCERIDES accumulated.
alcohol anhydrous	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
alcoholic cirrhosis of liver	FIBROSIS of the hepatic parenchyma due to chronic excess ALCOHOL DRINKING.
alcoholics neuropathy	Skador på det perifera nervsystemet (inklusive det autonoma nervsystemets perifera delar) förknippade med kronisk förtäring av alkohol. Skadorna kan vara orsakade av alkoholen i sig eller av näringsbr ist till följd av missbruket.
ethanol measurement	The determination of the amount of ethanol present in a sample.
organic compound	A broad class of substances containing carbon and its derivatives. Many of these chemicals will frequently contain hydrogen with or without oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, and other elements. They exist in either carbon chain or carbon ring form.
product	Any substance, other than food, that is used to prevent, diagnose, treat or relieve symptoms of a disease or abnormal condition. Also refers to a substance that alters mood or body function, or that can be habit-forming or addictive, especially a narcotic.
éthanol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
meths	a kind of harmful substance
alcoholic polyneuropathy	Skador på det perifera nervsystemet (inklusive det autonoma nervsystemets perifera delar) förknippade med kronisk förtäring av alkohol. Skadorna kan vara orsakade av alkoholen i sig eller av näringsbr ist till följd av missbruket.
alcoholic gastritis	Inflammation of the stomach resulting from alcohol ingestion.
methylated spirits	a kind of harmful substance
alcohol measurement	The determination of the amount of ethanol present in a sample.
alcohols levels	The determination of the amount of ethanol present in a sample.
alcohol etílico	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
complex regional pain syndrome nos	Tillstånd med smärta i någon lem eller annan kroppsdel, hyperestesi och lokal, autonom funktionsrubbning till följd av mjukvävnads- eller nervskada. Smärtan är ofta förenad med rodnad, hudtemperaturförändringar, onormal sudomotorisk aktivitet (svettstimulering) eller ödem. Smärtintensitet och andra manifestationer står inte i proportion till vad som kan förväntas av den utlösande händelsen. Två typer av tillståndet har beskrivits: typ 1 (reflexdystrofi) och typ 2 (kausalgi).
äthylalkohol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
ethyl alcohol product	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
alkohol	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
central depressant nervous system	A very loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system. The major groups included here are ethyl alcohol, anesthetics, hypnotics and sedatives, narcotics, and tranquilizing agents (antipsychotics and antianxiety agents).
ipecac preparations	A syrup made from the dried rhizomes of two different species, CEPHAELIS ipecacuanha and C. acuminata. They contain EMETINE, cephaeline, psychotrine and other ISOQUINOLINES. Ipecac syrup is used widely as an emetic acting both locally on the gastric mucosa and centrally on the chemoreceptor trigger zone.
methyl alcohol	A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of FORMALDEHYDE and ACETIC ACID, in chemical synthesis, antifreeze, and as a solvent. Ingestion of methanol is toxic and may cause blindness.
alcohol wood	A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of FORMALDEHYDE and ACETIC ACID, in chemical synthesis, antifreeze, and as a solvent. Ingestion of methanol is toxic and may cause blindness.
wood alcohol	A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of FORMALDEHYDE and ACETIC ACID, in chemical synthesis, antifreeze, and as a solvent. Ingestion of methanol is toxic and may cause blindness.
carbinol	A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of FORMALDEHYDE and ACETIC ACID, in chemical synthesis, antifreeze, and as a solvent. Ingestion of methanol is toxic and may cause blindness.
class of chemical alcohols	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
methanol	A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of FORMALDEHYDE and ACETIC ACID, in chemical synthesis, antifreeze, and as a solvent. Ingestion of methanol is toxic and may cause blindness.
substance abused	Any substance, including any illegal, prescription, over-the-counter agent or any other compound, used for the purpose other than indicated or used in quantities other than directed. Substances from various drug classes can be abused, such as opioids, amphetamines, analgesics, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, hallucinogens, steroids, tobacco products and alcoholic substances. A substance of abuse may act on the central nervous system (CNS) or can have an effect in other parts of the body and can lead to physical and/or physiological dependence.
methanol measurement	A measurement of the methanol in a biological specimen.
substance of abuse	Any substance, including any illegal, prescription, over-the-counter agent or any other compound, used for the purpose other than indicated or used in quantities other than directed. Substances from various drug classes can be abused, such as opioids, amphetamines, analgesics, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, hallucinogens, steroids, tobacco products and alcoholic substances. A substance of abuse may act on the central nervous system (CNS) or can have an effect in other parts of the body and can lead to physical and/or physiological dependence.
propanol	A colorless liquid made by oxidation of aliphatic hydrocarbons that is used as a solvent and chemical intermediate.
propanols	Isomeric forms and derivatives of PROPANOL (C3H7OH).
n-propanol	A colorless liquid made by oxidation of aliphatic hydrocarbons that is used as a solvent and chemical intermediate.
propyl alcohol	A colorless liquid made by oxidation of aliphatic hydrocarbons that is used as a solvent and chemical intermediate.
alcoholic beverages	Drinkable liquids containing ETHANOL.
spirited	An alcoholic beverage in which the initial fermentation mixture is distilled in order to concentrate the alcohol, generally resulting in a mixture that is at least 35% alcohol by volume.
wine cooler	An alcoholic beverage made from wine and fruit juice, often in combination with a carbonated beverage and sugar.
carcinogenic mixture	A compound that consists of a combination of more than one substance that can cause cancer in humans. (NCI05)
alcoholic beverage	Drinkable liquids containing ETHANOL.
alcoholic spirits	An alcoholic beverage in which the initial fermentation mixture is distilled in order to concentrate the alcohol, generally resulting in a mixture that is at least 35% alcohol by volume.
liquor	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
drunkenness nos	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
acute alcohol intoxication	A dosing measurement based on the drink unit.
intox alcoholic	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
alcohol intoxication	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
drunkenness	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
intoxication alcohol	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
brain structure	The part of CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM that is contained within the skull (CRANIUM). Arising from the NEURAL TUBE, the embryonic brain is comprised of three major parts including PROSENCEPHALON (the forebrain); MESENCEPHALON (the midbrain); and RHOMBENCEPHALON (the hindbrain). The developed brain consists of CEREBRUM; CEREBELLUM; and other structures in the BRAIN STEM.
alcohol-induced disorders	Disorders stemming from the misuse and abuse of alcohol.
alcohol; intoxication	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
risk for thermal injury	Susceptible to extreme temperature damage to skin and mucous membranes, which may compromise health.
acute alcoholic intoxication	A dosing measurement based on the drink unit.
alcoholic intoxication	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
alcohol intoxication acute	A dosing measurement based on the drink unit.
inebriety nos	An acute brain syndrome which results from the excessive ingestion of ETHANOL or ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
disorder caused by alcohol	Disorders stemming from the misuse and abuse of alcohol.
general drug type	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
intoxication	Diminished control of mental or physical functioning caused by a substance.
alcoholics anonymous	An organization of self-proclaimed alcoholics who meet frequently to reinforce their practice of abstinence.
self help groups	Organizations which provide an environment encouraging social interactions through group activities or individual relationships especially for the purpose of rehabilitating or supporting patients, individuals with common health problems, or the elderly. They include therapeutic social clubs.
support groups	Organizations which provide an environment encouraging social interactions through group activities or individual relationships especially for the purpose of rehabilitating or supporting patients, individuals with common health problems, or the elderly. They include therapeutic social clubs.
d-cycloserine	Antibiotic substance produced by Streptomyces garyphalus.
alcohol dependence	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
phenprocoumarol	Coumarin derivative that acts as a long acting oral anticoagulant.
chloropernazine	A phenothiazine antipsychotic used principally in the treatment of NAUSEA; VOMITING; and VERTIGO. It is more likely than CHLORPROMAZINE to cause EXTRAPYRAMIDAL DISORDERS. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p612)
warfarin	An anticoagulant that acts by inhibiting the synthesis of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors. Warfarin is indicated for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism, and atrial fibrillation with embolization. It is also used as an adjunct in the prophylaxis of systemic embolism after myocardial infarction. Warfarin is also used as a rodenticide.
naltrexone hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of naltrexone, a noroxymorphone derivative with competitive opioid antagonistic activity. Naltrexone and its metabolite 6-beta-naltrexol reverse the effects of opioids by binding to various opioid receptors in the central nervous system CNS), including the mu-, kappa- and gamma-opioid receptors; opioid effects of analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, miosis, bradycardia, and physical dependence are inhibited. Naltrexone is longer-acting and more potent compared to naloxone.
chronic; drunkenness	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol abuse	Excessive use of distilled liquors
dependence	The psychological or physiological need to take a substance in order to experience its effects or to avoid the effects of its absence.
compulsive personality disorder	Disorder characterized by an emotionally constricted manner that is unduly conventional, serious, formal, and stingy, by preoccupation with trivial details, rules, order, organization, schedules, and lists, by stubborn insistence on having things one's own way without regard for the effects on others, by poor interpersonal relationships, and by indecisiveness due to fear of making mistakes.
addiction; alcohol	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcoholism disorders	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
pharmaceuticals	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
ethanols	A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
drunkenness; chronic	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
persistent alcohol abuse	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
compulsive disorder behavior	Disorder characterized by an emotionally constricted manner that is unduly conventional, serious, formal, and stingy, by preoccupation with trivial details, rules, order, organization, schedules, and lists, by stubborn insistence on having things one's own way without regard for the effects on others, by poor interpersonal relationships, and by indecisiveness due to fear of making mistakes.
problem drinking	Excessive use of distilled liquors
ethanol abuse	Excessive use of distilled liquors
alcohol abuse alcoholism	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
[x]chronic alcoholism	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol dependence syndrome	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
etohism	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol abuse disorder	Excessive use of distilled liquors
abuse alcohol alcoholism	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
addiction	The observable, measurable, and often pathological activity of an organism that portrays its inability to overcome a habit resulting in an insatiable craving for a substance or for performing certain acts. The addictive behavior includes the emotional and physical overdependence on the object of habit in increasing amount or frequency.
drug addiction	state of heavy dependence on any drug, including alcohol; sometimes defined as physical dependence but usually also including emotional dependence, i.e., compulsive or pathological drug use.
dependence; ethyl alcohol	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol induced disorder	Disorders stemming from the misuse and abuse of alcohol.
risk for surgical site infection	Susceptible to invasion of pathogenic organisms at surgical site, which may compromise health.
drinking problem	Excessive use of distilled liquors
[x]dipsomania	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol-induced amnestic psychosis	A mental disorder associated with chronic ethanol abuse (ALCOHOLISM) and nutritional deficiencies characterized by short term memory loss, confabulations, and disturbances of attention. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1139)
dependence; alcohol	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
addicted to alcohol	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
delirium tremens alcohol withdrawal ind	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
alcoholism/alcohol abuse	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcohol withdrawal-induced delirium tremens	An acute organic mental disorder induced by cessation or reduction in chronic alcohol consumption. Clinical characteristics include CONFUSION; DELUSIONS; vivid HALLUCINATIONS; TREMOR; agitation; insomnia; and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., elevated blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, and diaphoresis). This condition may occasionally be fatal. It was formerly called delirium tremens. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1175)
chronic alcohol intoxication	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcoholic psychosis	A group of mental disorders associated with organic brain damage and caused by poisoning from alcohol.
abuses alcohol	Excessive use of distilled liquors
alcohol; abuse	Excessive use of distilled liquors
alcohol paranoia	Paranoia inducida por la ingesta de alcohol.
alcoholism chronic disorders	A primary, chronic disease with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. The disease is often progressive and fatal. It is characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking, most notably denial. Each of these symptoms may be continuous or periodic. (Morse & Flavin for the Joint Commission of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism: in JAMA 1992;268:1012-4)
alcoholic jealousy	Paranoia inducida por la ingesta de alcohol.
alcoholic paranoia	Paranoia inducida por la ingesta de alcohol.
alcohol; withdrawal state	Processes and symptomatic effects resulting from abstinence from alcohol. Used for both human and animal populations.
alcohol withdrawal	Processes and symptomatic effects resulting from abstinence from alcohol. Used for both human and animal populations.
alcohol syndromes withdrawal	Processes and symptomatic effects resulting from abstinence from alcohol. Used for both human and animal populations.
alcohol; withdrawal	Processes and symptomatic effects resulting from abstinence from alcohol. Used for both human and animal populations.
alcoholism counseling	Counseling designed to guide and support an individual to overcome alcohol dependence.
drug dependency	state of heavy dependence on any drug, including alcohol; sometimes defined as physical dependence but usually also including emotional dependence, i.e., compulsive or pathological drug use.
product containing furazolidone	A nitrofuran derivative with antiprotozoal and antibacterial activity. Furazolidone acts by gradual inhibition of monoamine oxidase. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p514)
isocarboxazid	An MAO inhibitor that is effective in the treatment of major depression, dysthymic disorder, and atypical depression. It also is useful in the treatment of panic disorder and the phobic disorders. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p311)
alcohol products	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
alcohol substance	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
octyl alcohols	Isomeric forms and derivatives of octanol (C8H17OH).
amino alcohols	Compounds possessing both a hydroxyl (-OH) and an amino group (-NH2).
pentanol	An alcohol obtained from refinement of fusel oil; contains mainly isopentyl alcohol and 2-methyl-1-butanol
benzenemethanol	A colorless liquid with a sharp burning taste and slight odor. It is used as a local anesthetic and to reduce pain associated with LIDOCAINE injection. Also, it is used in the manufacture of other benzyl compounds, as a pharmaceutic aid, and in perfumery and flavoring.
clopenthixol product	A thioxanthene with therapeutic actions similar to the phenothiazine antipsychotics. It is an antagonist at D1 and D2 dopamine receptors.
ethchlorvynol product	A sedative and hypnotic that has been used in the short-term management of INSOMNIA. Its use has been superseded by other drugs.
alcohol fatty	Usually high-molecular-weight, straight-chain primary alcohols, but can also range from as few as 4 carbons, derived from natural fats and oils, including lauryl, stearyl, oleyl, and linoleyl alcohols. They are used in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, detergents, plastics, and lube oils and in textile manufacture. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 5th ed)
glycols	A generic grouping for dihydric alcohols with the hydroxy groups (-OH) located on different carbon atoms. They are viscous liquids with high boiling points for their molecular weights.
heptaminol	An amino alcohol that has been used as a myocardial stimulant and vasodilator and to relieve bronchospasm. Its most common therapeutic use is in orthostatic hypotension. The mechanism of heptaminol's therapeutic actions is not well understood although it has been suggested to affect catecholamine release or calcium metabolism.
mannit	A diuretic and renal diagnostic aid related to sorbitol. It has little significant energy value as it is largely eliminated from the body before any metabolism can take place. It can be used to treat oliguria associated with kidney failure or other manifestations of inadequate renal function and has been used for determination of glomerular filtration rate. Mannitol is also commonly used as a research tool in cell biological studies, usually to control osmolarity.
nicotinyl alcohol	Alcohol analog of NICOTINIC ACID which is a direct-acting peripheral vasodilator that causes flushing and may decrease blood pressure. It is used in vasospasm and threatened GANGRENE.
polyvinyl alcohol	A polymer prepared from polyvinyl acetates by replacement of the acetate groups with hydroxyl groups. It is used as a pharmaceutic aid and ophthalmic lubricant as well as in the manufacture of surface coatings artificial sponges, cosmetics, and other products.
alcohol sugars	Polyhydric alcohols having no more than one hydroxy group attached to each carbon atom. They are formed by the reduction of the carbonyl group of a sugar to a hydroxyl group. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
cetyl alcohol	A synthetic, solid, fatty alcohol and nonionic surfactant. Cetyl alcohol is used as an emulsifying agent in pharmaceutical preparations.
retinyl acetate	A naturally-occurring fatty acid ester form of retinol (vitamin A) with potential antineoplastic and chemopreventive activities. Retinyl acetate binds to and activates retinoid receptors, inducing cell differentiation and decreasing cell proliferation. This agent also inhibits carcinogen-induced neoplastic transformation in some cancer cell types and exhibits immunomodulatory properties. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1216" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1216" NCI Thesaurus)
saxagliptin hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of saxagliptin, an orally bioavailable, potent, selective and competitive, cyanopyrrolidine-based inhibitor of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4), with hypoglycemic activity. Saxagliptin is metabolized into an, although less potent, active mono-hydroxy metabolite.
compound organic	A broad class of substances containing carbon and its derivatives. Many of these chemicals will frequently contain hydrogen with or without oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, and other elements. They exist in either carbon chain or carbon ring form.
product containing benzyl alcohol	A colorless liquid with a sharp burning taste and slight odor. It is used as a local anesthetic and to reduce pain associated with LIDOCAINE injection. Also, it is used in the manufacture of other benzyl compounds, as a pharmaceutic aid, and in perfumery and flavoring.
dilated cardiomyopathy secondary to alcohol	Disease of CARDIAC MUSCLE resulting from chronic excessive alcohol consumption. Myocardial damage can be caused by: (1) a toxic effect of alcohol; (2) malnutrition in alcoholics such as THIAMINE DEFICIENCY; or (3) toxic effect of additives in alcoholic beverages such as COBALT. This disease is usually manifested by DYSPNEA and palpitations with CARDIOMEGALY and congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
alcoholic psychosis nos	A group of mental disorders associated with organic brain damage and caused by poisoning from alcohol.
palmityl alcohol	A synthetic, solid, fatty alcohol and nonionic surfactant. Cetyl alcohol is used as an emulsifying agent in pharmaceutical preparations.
alcohol; jealousy	Paranoia inducida por la ingesta de alcohol.
chlorbutol	A colorless to white crystalline compound with a camphoraceous odor and taste. It is a widely used preservative in various pharmaceutical solutions, especially injectables. Also, it is an active ingredient in certain oral sedatives and topical anesthetics.
chlorphenesin	A centrally acting muscle relaxant. Its mode of action is unknown. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1203)
inositol	An isomer of glucose that has traditionally been considered to be a B vitamin although it has an uncertain status as a vitamin and a deficiency syndrome has not been identified in man. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1379) Inositol phospholipids are important in signal transduction.
rubbing alcohol	An isomer of 1-PROPANOL. It is a colorless liquid having disinfectant properties. It is used in the manufacture of acetone and its derivatives and as a solvent. Topically, it is used as an antiseptic.
polyvinyl alcohol product	A polymer prepared from polyvinyl acetates by replacement of the acetate groups with hydroxyl groups. It is used as a pharmaceutic aid and ophthalmic lubricant as well as in the manufacture of surface coatings artificial sponges, cosmetics, and other products.
pseudoephedrine	A phenethylamine and a diastereomer of ephedrine with sympathomimetic property. Pseudoephedrine displaces norepinephrine from storage vesicles in presynaptic neurones, thereby releasing norepinephrine into the neuronal synapses where it stimulates primarily alpha-adrenergic receptors. It also has weak direct agonist activity at alpha- and beta- adrenergic receptors. Receptor stimulation results in vasoconstriction and decreases nasal and sinus congestion.
sodium tetradecyl sulfate	An anionic surface-active agent used for its wetting properties in industry and used in medicine as an irritant and sclerosing agent for hemorrhoids and varicose veins.
product containing sorbitol	A polyhydric alcohol with about half the sweetness of sucrose. Sorbitol occurs naturally and is also produced synthetically from glucose. It was formerly used as a diuretic and may still be used as a laxative and in irrigating solutions for some surgical procedures. It is also used in many manufacturing processes, as a pharmaceutical aid, and in several research applications.
vitamin a	Retinol and derivatives of retinol that play an essential role in metabolic functioning of the retina, the growth of and differentiation of epithelial tissue, the growth of bone, reproduction, and the immune response. Dietary vitamin A is derived from a variety of CAROTENOIDS found in plants. It is enriched in the liver, egg yolks, and the fat component of dairy products.
xylitol	A five-carbon sugar alcohol derived from XYLOSE by reduction of the carbonyl group. It is as sweet as sucrose and used as a noncariogenic sweetener.
propanediol	clear, colorless, viscous organic solvent and diluent used in pharmaceutical preparations.
nelfinavir	A potent HIV protease inhibitor. It is used in combination with other antiviral drugs in the treatment of HIV in both adults and children.
product containing fingolimod	An orally available derivate of myriocin and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1, S1P1) modulator, with potential anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating activities. Upon oral administration, fingolimod, as a structural analogue of sphingosine, selectively targets and binds to S1PR1 on lymphocytes and causes transient receptor activation followed by S1PR1 internalization and degradation. This results in the sequestration of lymphocytes in lymph nodes. By preventing egress of lymphocytes. fingolimod reduces both the amount of circulating peripheral lymphocytes and the infiltration of lymphocytes into target tissues. This prevents a lymphocyte-mediated immune response and may reduce inflammation. S1PR1, a G-protein coupled receptor, plays a key role in lymphocyte migration from lymphoid tissues. Fingolimod also shifts macrophages to an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, and modulates their proliferation, morphology, and cytokine release via inhibition of the transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily M, member 7 (TRPM7).
alcohol product	Alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group. They are classified according to relation of the carbon atom: primary alcohols, R-CH2OH; secondary alcohols, R2-CHOH; tertiary alcohols, R3-COH. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
benzylic alcohol	A colorless liquid with a sharp burning taste and slight odor. It is used as a local anesthetic and to reduce pain associated with LIDOCAINE injection. Also, it is used in the manufacture of other benzyl compounds, as a pharmaceutic aid, and in perfumery and flavoring.
glycerol	A trihydroxy sugar alcohol that is an intermediate in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. It is used as a solvent, emollient, pharmaceutical agent, or sweetening agent.
mannitol	A diuretic and renal diagnostic aid related to sorbitol. It has little significant energy value as it is largely eliminated from the body before any metabolism can take place. It can be used to treat oliguria associated with kidney failure or other manifestations of inadequate renal function and has been used for determination of glomerular filtration rate. Mannitol is also commonly used as a research tool in cell biological studies, usually to control osmolarity.
practololo	A beta-1 adrenergic antagonist that has been used in the emergency treatment of CARDIAC ARRYTHMIAS.
d-psi-ephedrine	A phenethylamine and a diastereomer of ephedrine with sympathomimetic property. Pseudoephedrine displaces norepinephrine from storage vesicles in presynaptic neurones, thereby releasing norepinephrine into the neuronal synapses where it stimulates primarily alpha-adrenergic receptors. It also has weak direct agonist activity at alpha- and beta- adrenergic receptors. Receptor stimulation results in vasoconstriction and decreases nasal and sinus congestion.
d-sorbitol	A polyhydric alcohol with about half the sweetness of sucrose. Sorbitol occurs naturally and is also produced synthetically from glucose. It was formerly used as a diuretic and may still be used as a laxative and in irrigating solutions for some surgical procedures. It is also used in many manufacturing processes, as a pharmaceutical aid, and in several research applications.
retinol	Retinol and derivatives of retinol that play an essential role in metabolic functioning of the retina, the growth of and differentiation of epithelial tissue, the growth of bone, reproduction, and the immune response. Dietary vitamin A is derived from a variety of CAROTENOIDS found in plants. It is enriched in the liver, egg yolks, and the fat component of dairy products.
n-docosanol	A saturated 22-carbon aliphatic alcohol with antiviral activity. Docosanol has a distinct mechanism of action and inhibits fusion between the plasma membrane and the herpes simplex virus envelope, thereby preventing viral entry into cells and subsequent viral activity and replication. Docosanol is used topically in the treatment of recurrent herpes simplex labialis episodes and relieves associated pain and may help heal sores faster.
fingolimod product	An orally available derivate of myriocin and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1, S1P1) modulator, with potential anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating activities. Upon oral administration, fingolimod, as a structural analogue of sphingosine, selectively targets and binds to S1PR1 on lymphocytes and causes transient receptor activation followed by S1PR1 internalization and degradation. This results in the sequestration of lymphocytes in lymph nodes. By preventing egress of lymphocytes. fingolimod reduces both the amount of circulating peripheral lymphocytes and the infiltration of lymphocytes into target tissues. This prevents a lymphocyte-mediated immune response and may reduce inflammation. S1PR1, a G-protein coupled receptor, plays a key role in lymphocyte migration from lymphoid tissues. Fingolimod also shifts macrophages to an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, and modulates their proliferation, morphology, and cytokine release via inhibition of the transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily M, member 7 (TRPM7).
n-propyl alcohol	A colorless liquid made by oxidation of aliphatic hydrocarbons that is used as a solvent and chemical intermediate.
hexanol	Isomeric forms and derivatives of hexanol (C6H11OH).
amyl alcohol	An alcohol obtained from refinement of fusel oil; contains mainly isopentyl alcohol and 2-methyl-1-butanol
dolichol	20-unit isoprenoid found in eukaryotes; serves as membrane anchor for oligosaccharide assembly in rough endoplasmic reticulum during protein glycosylation.
ethchlorvynol	A sedative and hypnotic that has been used in the short-term management of INSOMNIA. Its use has been superseded by other drugs.
phenylethyl alcohol	An antimicrobial, antiseptic, and disinfectant that is used also as an aromatic essence and preservative in pharmaceutics and perfumery.
sorbitol	A polyhydric alcohol with about half the sweetness of sucrose. Sorbitol occurs naturally and is also produced synthetically from glucose. It was formerly used as a diuretic and may still be used as a laxative and in irrigating solutions for some surgical procedures. It is also used in many manufacturing processes, as a pharmaceutical aid, and in several research applications.
sugar alcohol	Polyhydric alcohols having no more than one hydroxy group attached to each carbon atom. They are formed by the reduction of the carbonyl group of a sugar to a hydroxyl group. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
n-octyl alcohol	A colorless, slightly viscous liquid used as a defoaming or wetting agent. It is also used as a solvent for protective coatings, waxes, and oils, and as a raw material for plasticizers. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 5th ed)
vitamin a acetate	A naturally-occurring fatty acid ester form of retinol (vitamin A) with potential antineoplastic and chemopreventive activities. Retinyl acetate binds to and activates retinoid receptors, inducing cell differentiation and decreasing cell proliferation. This agent also inhibits carcinogen-induced neoplastic transformation in some cancer cell types and exhibits immunomodulatory properties. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1216" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1216" NCI Thesaurus)
saxagliptin hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of saxagliptin, an orally bioavailable, potent, selective and competitive, cyanopyrrolidine-based inhibitor of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4), with hypoglycemic activity. Saxagliptin is metabolized into an, although less potent, active mono-hydroxy metabolite.
α-toluenol	A colorless liquid with a sharp burning taste and slight odor. It is used as a local anesthetic and to reduce pain associated with LIDOCAINE injection. Also, it is used in the manufacture of other benzyl compounds, as a pharmaceutic aid, and in perfumery and flavoring.
alcohol induced paranoia	Paranoia inducida por la ingesta de alcohol.
isopropyl alcohol	An isomer of 1-PROPANOL. It is a colorless liquid having disinfectant properties. It is used in the manufacture of acetone and its derivatives and as a solvent. Topically, it is used as an antiseptic.
cetyl alcohol-containing product	A synthetic, solid, fatty alcohol and nonionic surfactant. Cetyl alcohol is used as an emulsifying agent in pharmaceutical preparations.
butanol	Isomeric forms and derivatives of butanol (C4H9OH).
tert-butyl alcohol	An isomer of butanol that contains a tertiary butyl group that consists of three methyl groups, each separately attached to a central (tertiary) carbon.
butanols	Isomeric forms and derivatives of butanol (C4H9OH).
fatty alcohols	Usually high-molecular-weight, straight-chain primary alcohols, but can also range from as few as 4 carbons, derived from natural fats and oils, including lauryl, stearyl, oleyl, and linoleyl alcohols. They are used in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, detergents, plastics, and lube oils and in textile manufacture. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 5th ed)
chlorobutanol	A colorless to white crystalline compound with a camphoraceous odor and taste. It is a widely used preservative in various pharmaceutical solutions, especially injectables. Also, it is an active ingredient in certain oral sedatives and topical anesthetics.
butyl alcohol	Isomeric forms and derivatives of butanol (C4H9OH).
fatty alcohol	Usually high-molecular-weight, straight-chain primary alcohols, but can also range from as few as 4 carbons, derived from natural fats and oils, including lauryl, stearyl, oleyl, and linoleyl alcohols. They are used in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, detergents, plastics, and lube oils and in textile manufacture. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 5th ed)
heptylcarbinols	Isomeric forms and derivatives of octanol (C8H17OH).
octanol n	A colorless, slightly viscous liquid used as a defoaming or wetting agent. It is also used as a solvent for protective coatings, waxes, and oils, and as a raw material for plasticizers. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 5th ed)
octanols	Isomeric forms and derivatives of octanol (C8H17OH).
alcuronium	A non-depolarizing skeletal muscle relaxant similar to TUBOCURARINE. It is used as an anesthesia adjuvant.
nicotinic cholinergic antagonist	Drugs that bind to nicotinic cholinergic receptors (RECEPTORS, NICOTINIC) and block the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists. Nicotinic antagonists block synaptic transmission at autonomic ganglia, the skeletal neuromuscular junction, and at central nervous system nicotinic synapses.
anesthesia adjuvants	Agents that are administered in association with anesthetics to increase effectiveness, improve delivery, or decrease required dosage.
nicotinic antagonist	Drugs that bind to nicotinic cholinergic receptors (RECEPTORS, NICOTINIC) and block the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists. Nicotinic antagonists block synaptic transmission at autonomic ganglia, the skeletal neuromuscular junction, and at central nervous system nicotinic synapses.
non-depolarizing muscle relaxant	Drugs that interrupt transmission at the skeletal neuromuscular junction without causing depolarization of the motor end plate. They prevent acetylcholine from triggering muscle contraction and are used as muscle relaxants during electroshock treatments, in convulsive states, and as anesthesia adjuvants.
nicotinic antagonists	Drugs that bind to nicotinic cholinergic receptors (RECEPTORS, NICOTINIC) and block the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists. Nicotinic antagonists block synaptic transmission at autonomic ganglia, the skeletal neuromuscular junction, and at central nervous system nicotinic synapses.
alkaloids	Organic nitrogenous bases. Many alkaloids of medical importance occur in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and some have been synthesized. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
quaternary ammonium compound	Oorganiska och organiska föreningar som innehåller den hypotetiska radikalen NH4.
d glucuronolactone dehydrogenase	An enzyme that oxidizes an aldehyde in the presence of NAD+ and water to an acid and NADH. This enzyme was formerly classified as EC 1.1.1.70.
aldehyde lyase	Enzymes that catalyze a reverse aldol condensation. A molecule containing a hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group is cleaved at a C-C bond to produce two smaller molecules (ALDEHYDES or KETONES). EC 4.1.2.
aldolase	Enzymes that catalyze a reverse aldol condensation. A molecule containing a hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group is cleaved at a C-C bond to produce two smaller molecules (ALDEHYDES or KETONES). EC 4.1.2.
aldehyde-lyases	Enzymes that catalyze a reverse aldol condensation. A molecule containing a hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group is cleaved at a C-C bond to produce two smaller molecules (ALDEHYDES or KETONES). EC 4.1.2.
aldolases	Enzymes that catalyze a reverse aldol condensation. A molecule containing a hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group is cleaved at a C-C bond to produce two smaller molecules (ALDEHYDES or KETONES). EC 4.1.2.
aldehyde-lyase -retired-	Enzymes that catalyze a reverse aldol condensation. A molecule containing a hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group is cleaved at a C-C bond to produce two smaller molecules (ALDEHYDES or KETONES). EC 4.1.2.
ethanal	A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of acetic acid, perfumes, and flavors. It is also an intermediate in the metabolism of alcohol. It has a general narcotic action and also causes irritation of mucous membranes. Large doses may cause death from respiratory paralysis.
formaldehyde	A highly reactive aldehyde gas formed by oxidation or incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons. In solution, it has a wide range of uses: in the manufacture of resins and textiles, as a disinfectant, and as a laboratory fixative or preservative. Formaldehyde solution (formalin) is considered a hazardous compound, and its vapor toxic. (From Reynolds, Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p717)
malonaldehyde	The dialdehyde of malonic acid.
acrylic aldehyde	Unsaturated three-carbon aldehyde.
propanedial	The dialdehyde of malonic acid.
paracetaldehyde	A hypnotic and sedative with anticonvulsant effects. However, because of the hazards associated with its administration, its tendency to react with plastic, and the risks associated with its deterioration, it has largely been superseded by other agents. It is still occasionally used to control status epilepticus resistant to conventional treatment. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p608-9)
crotonaldehyde	An unsaturated aldehyde with commercial applications, including the manufacture of sorbic acid, that is also found in tobacco smoke, gasoline and diesel engine exhausts, and smoke from wood burning. Airborne exposure to this chemical can cause eyes, nose, throat, and lung irritation.
voxelotor	An orally bioavailable modulator and stabilizer of sickle cell hemoglobin (HbS), with potential use in the treatment of sickle cell disease (SCD). Upon administration, voxelotor targets and covalently binds to the N-terminal valine of the alpha chain of HbS. This stabilizes HbS, thereby improving oxygen binding affinity. The binding of voxelotor to HbS prevents HbS polymerization, reduces sickling, decreases red blood cell (RBC) damage and increases the half-life of RBCs. This improves blood flow and decreases hemolytic anemia.
benzenemethylal	A chemical used in flavorings and in some dyes, perfumes, and medicines. It is found in essential oils made from almonds and peach pits and in other foods. It can also be made in the laboratory.
formaldehyde product	A highly reactive aldehyde gas formed by oxidation or incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons. In solution, it has a wide range of uses: in the manufacture of resins and textiles, as a disinfectant, and as a laboratory fixative or preservative. Formaldehyde solution (formalin) is considered a hazardous compound, and its vapor toxic. (From Reynolds, Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p717)
noxytiolin	Local antibacterial that probably acts by releasing formaldehyde in aqueous solutions. It is used for THERAPEUTIC IRRIGATION of infected body cavities - bladder, peritoneum, etc. and as a spray for burns.
methyl aldehyde	A highly reactive aldehyde gas formed by oxidation or incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons. In solution, it has a wide range of uses: in the manufacture of resins and textiles, as a disinfectant, and as a laboratory fixative or preservative. Formaldehyde solution (formalin) is considered a hazardous compound, and its vapor toxic. (From Reynolds, Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p717)
glutaraldehyde	One of the protein CROSS-LINKING REAGENTS that is used as a disinfectant for sterilization of heat-sensitive equipment and as a laboratory reagent, especially as a fixative.
benzaldehyde	A chemical used in flavorings and in some dyes, perfumes, and medicines. It is found in essential oils made from almonds and peach pits and in other foods. It can also be made in the laboratory.
product containing formaldehyde	A highly reactive aldehyde gas formed by oxidation or incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons. In solution, it has a wide range of uses: in the manufacture of resins and textiles, as a disinfectant, and as a laboratory fixative or preservative. Formaldehyde solution (formalin) is considered a hazardous compound, and its vapor toxic. (From Reynolds, Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p717)
product containing aldehyde	Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group in the form -CHO.
paraldehyde	A hypnotic and sedative with anticonvulsant effects. However, because of the hazards associated with its administration, its tendency to react with plastic, and the risks associated with its deterioration, it has largely been superseded by other agents. It is still occasionally used to control status epilepticus resistant to conventional treatment. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p608-9)
methylpropenal	An unsaturated aldehyde with commercial applications, including the manufacture of sorbic acid, that is also found in tobacco smoke, gasoline and diesel engine exhausts, and smoke from wood burning. Airborne exposure to this chemical can cause eyes, nose, throat, and lung irritation.
aldicarb	Carbamate derivative used as an insecticide, acaricide, and nematocide.
cholinesterase inhibitors	Drugs that inhibit cholinesterases. The neurotransmitter ACETYLCHOLINE is rapidly hydrolyzed, and thereby inactivated, by cholinesterases. When cholinesterases are inhibited, the action of endogenously released acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses is potentiated. Cholinesterase inhibitors are widely used clinically for their potentiation of cholinergic inputs to the gastrointestinal tract and urinary bladder, the eye, and skeletal muscles; they are also used for their effects on the heart and the central nervous system.
cholinesterase inhibitor	Drugs that inhibit cholinesterases. The neurotransmitter ACETYLCHOLINE is rapidly hydrolyzed, and thereby inactivated, by cholinesterases. When cholinesterases are inhibited, the action of endogenously released acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses is potentiated. Cholinesterase inhibitors are widely used clinically for their potentiation of cholinergic inputs to the gastrointestinal tract and urinary bladder, the eye, and skeletal muscles; they are also used for their effects on the heart and the central nervous system.
anticholinesterase drug	Drugs that inhibit cholinesterases. The neurotransmitter ACETYLCHOLINE is rapidly hydrolyzed, and thereby inactivated, by cholinesterases. When cholinesterases are inhibited, the action of endogenously released acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses is potentiated. Cholinesterase inhibitors are widely used clinically for their potentiation of cholinergic inputs to the gastrointestinal tract and urinary bladder, the eye, and skeletal muscles; they are also used for their effects on the heart and the central nervous system.
anti cholinesterases	Drugs that inhibit cholinesterases. The neurotransmitter ACETYLCHOLINE is rapidly hydrolyzed, and thereby inactivated, by cholinesterases. When cholinesterases are inhibited, the action of endogenously released acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses is potentiated. Cholinesterase inhibitors are widely used clinically for their potentiation of cholinergic inputs to the gastrointestinal tract and urinary bladder, the eye, and skeletal muscles; they are also used for their effects on the heart and the central nervous system.
aldose reductase	An enzyme that catalyzes reversibly the oxidation of an aldose to an alditol. It possesses broad specificity for many aldoses. EC 1.1.1.21.
product containing aldosterone	A hormone secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX that regulates electrolyte and water balance by increasing the renal retention of sodium and the excretion of potassium.
aldosterone inhibitors	agent that counteracts or opposes the action of aldosterone.
aldstrn	A measurement of the aldosterone hormone in a biological specimen.
aldosterone test	A measurement of the aldosterone hormone in a biological specimen.
aldosterona	A hormone secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX that regulates electrolyte and water balance by increasing the renal retention of sodium and the excretion of potassium.
mineralocorticoid hormone	A group of CORTICOSTEROIDS primarily associated with water and electrolyte balance. This is accomplished through the effect on ION TRANSPORT in renal tubules, resulting in retention of sodium and loss of potassium. Mineralocorticoid secretion is itself regulated by PLASMA VOLUME, serum potassium, and ANGIOTENSIN II.
aldosterone product	A hormone secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX that regulates electrolyte and water balance by increasing the renal retention of sodium and the excretion of potassium.
adrenal hormone agent	Hormones made from cholesterol and protein produced by the adrenal glands and regulate electrolyte balance, blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar balance, and immune system control.
assay of aldosterone	A measurement of the aldosterone hormone in a biological specimen.
aldosterone antagonist	agent that counteracts or opposes the action of aldosterone.
canrenone	A synthetic pregnadiene compound with anti-aldosterone activity.
aldosterone receptor antagonist product	agent that counteracts or opposes the action of aldosterone.
spironolactone	A potassium sparing diuretic that acts by antagonism of aldosterone in the distal renal tubules. It is used mainly in the treatment of refractory edema in patients with congestive heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, or hepatic cirrhosis. Its effects on the endocrine system are utilized in the treatments of hirsutism and acne but they can lead to adverse effects. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p827)
antagonist aldosterone	agent that counteracts or opposes the action of aldosterone.
aldosterone antagonists	agent that counteracts or opposes the action of aldosterone.
potassium-sparring diuretic product	Any diuretic agent that produces diuresis without increasing potassium excretion. Potassium sparing diuretics are generally either aldosterone antagonists and thus prevent the aldosterone-mediated promotion of sodium and water retention, or are epithelial sodium channel blockers and prevent the exchange of potassium for sodium in the distal convoluted tubule. These agents cause diuresis without increasing potassium secretion and thus do not cause hypokalemia.
antagonist	In medicine, a substance that stops the action or effect of another substance. For example, a drug that blocks the stimulating effect of estrogen on a tumor cell is called an estrogen receptor antagonist.
eplerenone	A selective aldosterone receptor antagonist. Eplerenone binds to the mineralocorticoid receptor and blocks the binding of aldosterone, thereby decreasing sodium resorption and subsequently increasing water outflow. This leads to a decrease in blood pressure. Eplerenone is used in the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure.
aldosterone receptor antagonist	agent that counteracts or opposes the action of aldosterone.
receptor antagonist	In medicine, a substance that stops the action or effect of another substance. For example, a drug that blocks the stimulating effect of estrogen on a tumor cell is called an estrogen receptor antagonist.
potassium sparing diuretics	Any diuretic agent that produces diuresis without increasing potassium excretion. Potassium sparing diuretics are generally either aldosterone antagonists and thus prevent the aldosterone-mediated promotion of sodium and water retention, or are epithelial sodium channel blockers and prevent the exchange of potassium for sodium in the distal convoluted tubule. These agents cause diuresis without increasing potassium secretion and thus do not cause hypokalemia.
verospirone	A potassium sparing diuretic that acts by antagonism of aldosterone in the distal renal tubules. It is used mainly in the treatment of refractory edema in patients with congestive heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, or hepatic cirrhosis. Its effects on the endocrine system are utilized in the treatments of hirsutism and acne but they can lead to adverse effects. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p827)
aldrin	A highly poisonous substance that was formerly used as an insecticide. The manufacture and use has been discontinued in the U.S. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticide	class of insecticides composed of chlorinated organic compounds.
aleutian mink dis	A slow progressive disease of mink caused by the ALEUTIAN MINK DISEASE VIRUS. It is characterized by poor reproduction, weight loss, autoimmunity, hypergammaglobulinemia, increased susceptibility to bacterial infections, and death from renal failure. The disease occurs in all color types, but mink which are homozygous recessive for the Aleutian gene for light coat color are particularly susceptible.
disease due to parvoviridae	Virus infections caused by the PARVOVIRIDAE.
aleutian disease virus	A species of PARVOVIRUS that causes a disease in mink, mainly those homozygous for the recessive Aleutian gene which determines a desirable coat color.
aleutian mink disease	A slow progressive disease of mink caused by the ALEUTIAN MINK DISEASE VIRUS. It is characterized by poor reproduction, weight loss, autoimmunity, hypergammaglobulinemia, increased susceptibility to bacterial infections, and death from renal failure. The disease occurs in all color types, but mink which are homozygous recessive for the Aleutian gene for light coat color are particularly susceptible.
viridae	Minute infectious agents whose genomes are composed of DNA or RNA, but not both. They are characterized by a lack of independent metabolism and the inability to replicate outside living host cells.
aleutian disease	A slow progressive disease of mink caused by the ALEUTIAN MINK DISEASE VIRUS. It is characterized by poor reproduction, weight loss, autoimmunity, hypergammaglobulinemia, increased susceptibility to bacterial infections, and death from renal failure. The disease occurs in all color types, but mink which are homozygous recessive for the Aleutian gene for light coat color are particularly susceptible.
aleutian mink disease virus	A species of PARVOVIRUS that causes a disease in mink, mainly those homozygous for the recessive Aleutian gene which determines a desirable coat color.
mink aleutian disease	A slow progressive disease of mink caused by the ALEUTIAN MINK DISEASE VIRUS. It is characterized by poor reproduction, weight loss, autoimmunity, hypergammaglobulinemia, increased susceptibility to bacterial infections, and death from renal failure. The disease occurs in all color types, but mink which are homozygous recessive for the Aleutian gene for light coat color are particularly susceptible.
parvoviruses	A genus of the family PARVOVIRIDAE, subfamily PARVOVIRINAE, infecting a variety of vertebrates including humans. Parvoviruses are responsible for a number of important diseases but also can be non-pathogenic in certain hosts. The type species is MINUTE VIRUS OF MICE.
aleutian dis virus	A species of PARVOVIRUS that causes a disease in mink, mainly those homozygous for the recessive Aleutian gene which determines a desirable coat color.
picodnaviruses	unenveloped ssDNA viruses; replication is in the nucleus; one or more cellular functions are necessary for replication.
aleutian mink dis virus	A species of PARVOVIRUS that causes a disease in mink, mainly those homozygous for the recessive Aleutian gene which determines a desirable coat color.
alexia	An acquired type of sensory aphasia where damage to the brain leads to the loss of the ability to read. [HPO:probinson]
[d]symptoms nos	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
structure of nervous system	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
physiol nervous system	Egenskaper och processer typiska för nervsystemet som helhet eller med avseende på det perifera eller centrala nervsystemet.
alexias	An acquired type of sensory aphasia where damage to the brain leads to the loss of the ability to read. [HPO:probinson]
nervous systems	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
aphemesthesia	An acquired type of sensory aphasia where damage to the brain leads to the loss of the ability to read. [HPO:probinson]
dyslexia	A cognitive disorder characterized by an impaired ability to comprehend written and printed words or phrases despite intact vision. This condition may be developmental or acquired. Developmental dyslexia is marked by reading achievement that falls substantially below that expected given the individual's chronological age, measured intelligence, and age-appropriate education. The disturbance in reading significantly interferes with academic achievement or with activities of daily living that require reading skills. (From DSM-IV)
autistic behaviors	Persistent deficits in social interaction and communication and interaction as well as a markedly restricted repertoire of activity and interest as well as repetitive patterns of behavior. [HPO:probinson, PMID:28879490]
alexithymia	A deficit in emotional awareness characterized by difficulties in recognizing and expressing feelings and emotions manifested as a limited ability to respond to facial clues or other signs of emotions in others often accompanied by detached connections to others. [PMID:32471365]
medicago sativa/alfalfa leaf	plant species of the family Fabaceae widely cultivated for animal feed.
medicagos	A plant genus of the family FABACEAE. It is distinct from Sweet Clover (MELILOTUS), from Bush Clover (LESPEDEZA), and from Red Clover (TRIFOLIUM).
alfalfa	plant species of the family Fabaceae widely cultivated for animal feed.
medicago	A plant genus of the family FABACEAE. It is distinct from Sweet Clover (MELILOTUS), from Bush Clover (LESPEDEZA), and from Red Clover (TRIFOLIUM).
alfentanil	A short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL. It produces an early peak analgesic effect and fast recovery of consciousness. Alfentanil is effective as an anesthetic during surgery, for supplementation of analgesia during surgical procedures, and as an analgesic for critically ill patients.
opioids	A substance used to treat moderate to severe pain. Opioids are like opiates, such as morphine and codeine, but are not made from opium. Opioids bind to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. An opioid is a type of alkaloid.
narcotics	Agents that induce NARCOSIS. Narcotics include agents that cause somnolence or induced sleep (STUPOR); natural or synthetic derivatives of OPIUM or MORPHINE or any substance that has such effects. They are potent inducers of ANALGESIA and OPIOID-RELATED DISORDERS.
alfentanyl	A short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL. It produces an early peak analgesic effect and fast recovery of consciousness. Alfentanil is effective as an anesthetic during surgery, for supplementation of analgesia during surgical procedures, and as an analgesic for critically ill patients.
general intravenous anesthetic	Ultrashort-acting anesthetics that are used for induction. Loss of consciousness is rapid and induction is pleasant, but there is no muscle relaxation and reflexes frequently are not reduced adequately. Repeated administration results in accumulation and prolongs the recovery time. Since these agents have little if any analgesic activity, they are seldom used alone except in brief minor procedures. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p174)
opioid analgesic	Compounds with activity like OPIATE ALKALOIDS, acting at OPIOID RECEPTORS. Properties include induction of ANALGESIA or NARCOSIS.
product containing alfentanil	A short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL. It produces an early peak analgesic effect and fast recovery of consciousness. Alfentanil is effective as an anesthetic during surgery, for supplementation of analgesia during surgical procedures, and as an analgesic for critically ill patients.
opioid receptor agonist	Any agent that binds to and activates any of the opioid receptor subtypes. Opioid receptor agonists mimic the actions of endogenous opioid peptides.
fentanyl	A potent narcotic analgesic, abuse of which leads to habituation or addiction. It is primarily a mu-opioid agonist. Fentanyl is also used as an adjunct to general anesthetics, and as an anesthetic for induction and maintenance. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1078)
alfentanil - chemical	A short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL. It produces an early peak analgesic effect and fast recovery of consciousness. Alfentanil is effective as an anesthetic during surgery, for supplementation of analgesia during surgical procedures, and as an analgesic for critically ill patients.
parenteral anaesthetic	Ultrashort-acting anesthetics that are used for induction. Loss of consciousness is rapid and induction is pleasant, but there is no muscle relaxation and reflexes frequently are not reduced adequately. Repeated administration results in accumulation and prolongs the recovery time. Since these agents have little if any analgesic activity, they are seldom used alone except in brief minor procedures. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p174)
opioid analgesics	Compounds with activity like OPIATE ALKALOIDS, acting at OPIOID RECEPTORS. Properties include induction of ANALGESIA or NARCOSIS.
general intravenous anaesthetic	Ultrashort-acting anesthetics that are used for induction. Loss of consciousness is rapid and induction is pleasant, but there is no muscle relaxation and reflexes frequently are not reduced adequately. Repeated administration results in accumulation and prolongs the recovery time. Since these agents have little if any analgesic activity, they are seldom used alone except in brief minor procedures. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p174)
alfentanil hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of alfentanil, a synthetic short-acting opioid with analgesic and local anesthesia enhancing activity. Alfentanil hydrochloride primarily binds to mu-opioid receptor, a G-protein-coupled receptor, thereby mimicking the actions of morphine, the prototypical mu receptor agonist. This agent induces anti-nociception responses mediated through inhibiting the release of various neurotransmitters such as substance P, GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine and noradrenaline; in addition, the release of vasopressin, somatostatin, insulin and glucagon are also inhibited. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C220" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C220" NCI Thesaurus)
alfentanilo	A short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL. It produces an early peak analgesic effect and fast recovery of consciousness. Alfentanil is effective as an anesthetic during surgery, for supplementation of analgesia during surgical procedures, and as an analgesic for critically ill patients.
opioid	A substance used to treat moderate to severe pain. Opioids are like opiates, such as morphine and codeine, but are not made from opium. Opioids bind to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. An opioid is a type of alkaloid.
drugs affecting cns	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
alfentanil hcl	The hydrochloride salt of alfentanil, a synthetic short-acting opioid with analgesic and local anesthesia enhancing activity. Alfentanil hydrochloride primarily binds to mu-opioid receptor, a G-protein-coupled receptor, thereby mimicking the actions of morphine, the prototypical mu receptor agonist. This agent induces anti-nociception responses mediated through inhibiting the release of various neurotransmitters such as substance P, GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine and noradrenaline; in addition, the release of vasopressin, somatostatin, insulin and glucagon are also inhibited. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C220" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C220" NCI Thesaurus)
cns agent	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
drug; hypersensitivity	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
hpnss	A syndrome related to increased atmospheric pressure and characterized by tremors, nausea, dizziness, decreased motor and mental performance, and SEIZURES. This condition may occur in those who dive deeply (c. 1000 ft) usually while breathing a mixture of oxygen and helium. The condition is associated with a neuroexcitatory effect of helium.
opiate agonist product	A substance used to treat moderate to severe pain. Opioids are like opiates, such as morphine and codeine, but are not made from opium. Opioids bind to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. An opioid is a type of alkaloid.
alfentanilum	A short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL. It produces an early peak analgesic effect and fast recovery of consciousness. Alfentanil is effective as an anesthetic during surgery, for supplementation of analgesia during surgical procedures, and as an analgesic for critically ill patients.
analgesics opioid	Compounds with activity like OPIATE ALKALOIDS, acting at OPIOID RECEPTORS. Properties include induction of ANALGESIA or NARCOSIS.
intravenous anesthetics	Ultrashort-acting anesthetics that are used for induction. Loss of consciousness is rapid and induction is pleasant, but there is no muscle relaxation and reflexes frequently are not reduced adequately. Repeated administration results in accumulation and prolongs the recovery time. Since these agents have little if any analgesic activity, they are seldom used alone except in brief minor procedures. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p174)
parenteral anesthetic	Ultrashort-acting anesthetics that are used for induction. Loss of consciousness is rapid and induction is pleasant, but there is no muscle relaxation and reflexes frequently are not reduced adequately. Repeated administration results in accumulation and prolongs the recovery time. Since these agents have little if any analgesic activity, they are seldom used alone except in brief minor procedures. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p174)
narcotic	Agents that induce NARCOSIS. Narcotics include agents that cause somnolence or induced sleep (STUPOR); natural or synthetic derivatives of OPIUM or MORPHINE or any substance that has such effects. They are potent inducers of ANALGESIA and OPIOID-RELATED DISORDERS.
algae	major group of lower freshwater, marine, terrestrial or subterranean photosynthetic plants of extremely varied morphology and physiology, and that is commonly considered to be a heterogeneous assemblage.
chlorophyta	green algae; in this division of algae, the green pigment of chlorophyll is not masked by other pigments; there are over 7000 species; most live in freshwater, about ten percent are marine.
algas	major group of lower freshwater, marine, terrestrial or subterranean photosynthetic plants of extremely varied morphology and physiology, and that is commonly considered to be a heterogeneous assemblage.
resultor	A genus of very small, flagellated green algae.
plant	Multicellular, eukaryotic life forms of kingdom Plantae. Plants acquired chloroplasts by direct endosymbiosis of CYANOBACTERIA. They are characterized by a mainly photosynthetic mode of nutrition; essentially unlimited growth at localized regions of cell divisions (MERISTEMS); cellulose within cells providing rigidity; the absence of organs of locomotion; absence of nervous and sensory systems; and an alternation of haploid and diploid generations. It is a non-taxonomical term most often referring to LAND PLANTS. In broad sense it includes RHODOPHYTA and GLAUCOPHYTA along with VIRIDIPLANTAE.
aphanizomenon	Ett formsläkte av planktoniska blågröna alger inom ordningen Nostocales.
anabaena	A genus of CYANOBACTERIA consisting of trichomes that are untapered with conspicuous constrictions at cross-walls. A firm individual sheath is absent, but a soft covering is often present. Many species are known worldwide as major components of freshwater PLANKTON and also of many saline lakes. The species DOLICHOSPERMUM FLOS-AQUAE is responsible for acute poisonings of various animals.
bacillariophyta	The common name for the phylum of microscopic unicellular STRAMENOPILES. Most are aquatic, being found in fresh, brackish, and salt water. Diatoms are noted for the symmetry and sculpturing of their siliceous cell walls. They account for 40% of PHYTOPLANKTON, but not all diatoms are planktonic.
chlorella	Nonmotile unicellular green algae potentially valuable as a source of high-grade protein and B-complex vitamins.
chlorophycota	green algae; in this division of algae, the green pigment of chlorophyll is not masked by other pigments; there are over 7000 species; most live in freshwater, about ten percent are marine.
chlorophyceae	A class of green algae in the subdivision CHLOROPHYTINA distinguished by its ultrastructural morphology. Some species have distinct arrangement of flagella.
plants	Multicellular, eukaryotic life forms of kingdom Plantae. Plants acquired chloroplasts by direct endosymbiosis of CYANOBACTERIA. They are characterized by a mainly photosynthetic mode of nutrition; essentially unlimited growth at localized regions of cell divisions (MERISTEMS); cellulose within cells providing rigidity; the absence of organs of locomotion; absence of nervous and sensory systems; and an alternation of haploid and diploid generations. It is a non-taxonomical term most often referring to LAND PLANTS. In broad sense it includes RHODOPHYTA and GLAUCOPHYTA along with VIRIDIPLANTAE.
green algae	green algae; in this division of algae, the green pigment of chlorophyll is not masked by other pigments; there are over 7000 species; most live in freshwater, about ten percent are marine.
prototheca species	A genus of achlorophyllic algae in the family Chlorellaceae, and closely related to CHLORELLA. It is found in decayed matter; WATER; SEWAGE; and SOIL; and produces cutaneous and disseminated infections in various VERTEBRATES including humans.
red algae	Alger av divisionen Rhodophyta, där röda färgämnen dominerar; vanliga släkten är Gelidium, Gracilaria och Polysiphonia.
rhodophytes	Alger av divisionen Rhodophyta, där röda färgämnen dominerar; vanliga släkten är Gelidium, Gracilaria och Polysiphonia.
algeria	A country in northern Africa bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between MOROCCO and TUNISIA. Its capital is Algiers.
cdisc send country terminology	A collective generic term that refers here to a wide variety of dependencies, areas of special sovereignty, uninhabited islands, and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states. (NCI)
algestone acetophenide	A progesterone that has been used in ESTRUS SYNCHRONIZATION and has been evaluated as an injectable contraceptive in combination with estradiol enanthate. It is also applied topically as an anti-inflammatory and in the treatment of ACNE.
contraceptives oral syn	Oral contraceptives which owe their effectiveness to synthetic preparations.
progestins	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
progestin	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
alphasone acetophenide	A progesterone that has been used in ESTRUS SYNCHRONIZATION and has been evaluated as an injectable contraceptive in combination with estradiol enanthate. It is also applied topically as an anti-inflammatory and in the treatment of ACNE.
gestagens	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
anti inflamm	Substances that reduce or suppress INFLAMMATION.
progestogen product	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
algorithm	A procedure consisting of a sequence of algebraic formulas and/or logical steps to calculate or determine a given task.
machine intelligence	Theory and development of COMPUTER SYSTEMS which perform tasks that normally require human intelligence. Such tasks may include speech recognition, LEARNING; VISUAL PERCEPTION; MATHEMATICAL COMPUTING; reasoning, PROBLEM SOLVING, DECISION-MAKING, and translation of language.
algorithms	A procedure consisting of a sequence of algebraic formulas and/or logical steps to calculate or determine a given task.
computer software	Sequential operating programs and data which instruct the functioning of a digital computer.
mathematic	The deductive study of shape, quantity, and dependence. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 6th ed)
neural networks	Datorarkitektur som kan byggas in i antingen hårdvara eller mjukvara och som efterliknar biologiska nervnät. Liksom det biologiska systemet, där bearbetningsförmågan är ett resultat av kopplingsstyrkan mellan grupperingar av ickelinjära processornoder, består datornervnät, ofta benämnda perceptroner eller flerskiktsnätverk, av nervnätsliknande enheter. Ett lager består av en homogen enhetsgrupp. Sådana nätverk är bra på mönsterigenkänning. De är anpassningsbara, genom att arbeta utifrån exempel, och är därmed bättre på att fatta beslut än
compression	The coding of data to save storage space or transmission time.
soundex	<p>A name spelled according to the SoundEx algorithm.</p>
seg algorithm	A computer algorithm that provides a general method for partitioning the globular and non-globular regions of a protein sequence.
ffas algorithm	A profile-profile alignment algorithm that make structural predictions using sequence information.
signalp algorithm	An algorithm that predicts the presence and location of signal peptide cleavage sites in amino acid sequences. It incorporates a prediction of cleavage sites and a signal peptide/non-signal peptide prediction based on a combination of several artificial neural networks and hidden Markov models.
aracne algorithm	An information-theoretic algorithm for reverse engineering of transcriptional networks using microarray data, specifically designed to scale up to the complexity of regulatory networks in mammalian cells, yet general enough to address a wider range of network deconvolution problems, while eliminating the majority of indirect interactions inferred by co-expression methods.
comparative marker selection	An algorithm for assigning significance values to genes being tested for their ability to discriminate between microarray samples.
gridftp	A transport protocol, designed by the Global Grid Form, to enable secure and efficient transfer, access, and retrieval of distributed data in a grid environment.
modified partitioning around medoids	A classification algorithm based on the robust classification method called partitioning around medoids. MPAM includes terms in the objective function to penalize the small between-group distances. The resulting average silhouette width is a useful measure of classification quality.
non-negative matrix factorization	A pattern recognition alogrithm that identifies patterns that together explain the data as a linear combination of expression signatures.
self-organizing map	A data visualization technique which reduces the dimensions of data through the use of self-organizing neural networks. SOMs scale well to large data sets, can identify local clusters in the data and organize them globally, and proceed in an unsupervised fashion.
gel electrophoresis image warping	A computer-implemented image processing method and apparatus for normalizing gel electrophoresis images. The method includes the steps of assigning tiepoints in a reference image and in one or more object images. The tiepoints in the object image are evaluated by comparison to a corresponding tiepoint in the reference image, and the location of the tiepoint in the object image is adjusted by slight movement to a location with respect to recognizable features in both the reference and object image. Warping functions are generated and then globally optimized.
kernel function	A function that measures the distance between two expression vectors as the data are projected into higher-dimensional space.
polynomial	A mathematical expression formed by summing multiples of powers of some variable.
cost function	A function or expression that is either maximized or minimized in order to obtain the optimal solution for a mathematical problem.
expectation maximization algorithm	Algorithm used in statistics for finding maximum likelihood estimates of parameters in probabilistic models, where the model depends on unobserved latent (inferred) variables.
hidden markov model forward algorithm	A Hidden Markov Model algorithm that calculates recursively forward along the observation sequence.
state machine	A model of computation consisting of a set of states, a set of input events, a set of output events, and a state transition function.
sequence specific retention factor	Predicts the retention time of tryptic peptides during RP-HPLC fractionation based on the hydrophobicity measure algorithm of Krokhin et al. (Mol Cell Proteomics. 2004 Sep;3(9):908-19. Epub 2004 Jul 6)
metabolic equivalent of task	A mathematic formula used to estimate individual oxygen consumption, and thus energy expenditure, at rest and for various physical activities.
metaphone	A phonetic algorithm for indexing words based on the way they sound.
input function	A time varying function providing causal changes to a system it acts upon.
transfer of images and data	Application software written to allow the submission and download of images and data.
ecg twave algorithm	The defined procedure used to identify the end of the T wave.
pcornet-defined condition algorithm	An algorithm designed to identify health conditions as defined by the National Patient-Centered Clinical Research Network.
pq/cmc terminology	A category of terminology used to qualify the information pertaining to Pharmaceutical Quality/Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls.
nci_cdisc-gloss	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Glossary group.
alkadienes	Acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having two carbon-carbon double bonds.
depudecin	Depudecin is a fungal metabolite that reverts the rounded phenotype of NIH 3T3 fibroblasts transformed with v-ras and v-src oncogenes to the flattened phenotype of the non-transformed parental cells. The mechanism of de-transformation induced by this agent had not been determined. However, depudecin has been demonstrated to inhibit histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity effectively both in vivo and in vitro.
alkali	Usually a hydroxide of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium or cesium, but also the carbonates of these metals, ammonia, and the amines. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
charcoal	An amorphous form of carbon prepared from the incomplete combustion of animal or vegetable matter, e.g., wood. The activated form of charcoal is used in the treatment of poisoning. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
alkalies	Usually a hydroxide of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium or cesium, but also the carbonates of these metals, ammonia, and the amines. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
bases	fundamental category of chemical compounds identified by certain common characteristics such as the ability to react with acids to form salts, dissociate to give hydroxide ions in aqueous solution, capable of donating a pair of electrons to an acid for formation of a coordinate covalent bond, and able to turn litmus paper blue.
alkalis	Usually a hydroxide of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium or cesium, but also the carbonates of these metals, ammonia, and the amines. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
base excess	The determination of the amount of the base excess in a biological specimen.
contact dermatitis due to alkali	Contact dermatitis caused by exposure to alkalis.
inorganic chemical compound	A broad class of substances encompassing all those that do not include carbon and its derivatives as their principal elements. However, carbides, carbonates, cyanides, cyanates, and carbon disulfide are included in this class.
alkalising	Usually a hydroxide of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium or cesium, but also the carbonates of these metals, ammonia, and the amines. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
be - base excess	The determination of the amount of the base excess in a biological specimen.
contact dermatitis due to alkalis	Contact dermatitis caused by exposure to alkalis.
dermatitis due to alkalis	Contact dermatitis caused by exposure to alkalis.
alkaline dnase	An enzyme that is present in human serum and catalyzes the hydrolytic cleavage of phosphodiester bond linkages in the DNA backbone. The relative activity of this enzyme can be used as a marker of therapeutic responses or disease relapse.
esterase gene	Esterase Genes encode Esterases that catalyze hydrolysis of ester bonds to produce alcohol and acid reaction products. (NCI)
alkphos	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. EC 3.1.3.1.
alkaline phosphatase.bone	An isoform of alkaline phosphatase found on the surface of osteoblasts. The level of this enzyme in a patient's serum is proportional to the amount of bone formation. This marker is used for monitoring the efficacy of both bone formation therapies and antiresorptive therapies.
alkaline phosphatase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. EC 3.1.3.1.
serum alkaline phosphatase measurement	A quantitative measurement of the amount of alkaline phosphatase present in a sample of serum.
serum alkaline phosphatase	A quantitative measurement of the amount of alkaline phosphatase present in a sample of serum.
serum alkaline phosphatase test	A quantitative measurement of the amount of alkaline phosphatase present in a sample of serum.
alkaline phosphatase test	A quantitative measurement of alkaline phosphatase present in a sample.
hydrolase gene	A gene that encodes an enzyme capable of catalyzing the hydrolysis of chemical bonds.
baccatin iii	A compound obtained from the needles of the Taxus baccata tree that is used as a precursor of paclitaxel.
friar's cap root	Dried root of Aconitum napellus.
aporphines	Dibenzoquinolines derived in plants from (S)-reticuline (BENZYLISOQUINOLINES).
emetine	The principal alkaloid of ipecac, from the ground roots of Uragoga (or Cephaelis) ipecacuanha or U. acuminata, of the Rubiaceae. It is used as an amebicide in many different preparations and may cause serious cardiac, hepatic, or renal damage and violent diarrhea and vomiting. Emetine inhibits protein synthesis in EUKARYOTIC CELLS but not PROKARYOTIC CELLS.
alkaloids ergot	Alkaloids originally isolated from the ergot fungus Claviceps purpurea (Hypocreaceae). They include compounds that are structurally related to ergoline (ERGOLINES) and ergotamine (ERGOTAMINES). Many of the ergot alkaloids act as alpha-adrenergic antagonists.
galantamina	Ett bensazepin från växten Galanthus. Det är en kolinesterashämmare som används för att motverka muskeleffekterna av gallamintrietiodid och tubokurarin och som provats till behandling av Alzheimers sjukdom och andra CNS-sjukdomar.
product containing alkaloid	Organic nitrogenous bases. Many alkaloids of medical importance occur in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and some have been synthesized. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
curare	Plant extracts from several species, including genera STRYCHNOS and Chondodendron, which contain TETRAHYDROISOQUINOLINES that produce PARALYSIS of skeletal muscle. These extracts are toxic and must be used with the administration of artificial respiration.
narcotine	A naturally occurring opium alkaloid that is a centrally acting antitussive agent.
tropanes	N-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octanes best known for the ones found in PLANTS.
omacetaxine mepesuccinate	An anticancer drug that belongs to the plant alkaloid family of drugs.
alkaloid opiates	broad family of plant alkaloids with narcotic effects; historically used as sedatives, anesthetics, analgesics, and euphoriants; heroin and morphine are highly addictive, abused drugs.
midostaurin	A synthetic indolocarbazole multikinase inhibitor with potential antiangiogenic and antineoplastic activities. Midostaurin inhibits protein kinase C alpha (PKCalpha), vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), c-kit, platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) tyrosine kinases, which may result in disruption of the cell cycle, inhibition of proliferation, apoptosis, and inhibition of angiogenesis in susceptible tumors. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1872" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1872" NCI Thesaurus)
topotecan hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of a semisynthetic derivative of camptothecin with antineoplastic activity. During the S phase of the cell cycle, topotecan selectively stabilizes topoisomerase I-DNA covalent complexes, inhibiting religation of topoisomerase I-mediated single-strand DNA breaks and producing potentially lethal double-strand DNA breaks when complexes are encountered by the DNA replication machinery. Camptothecin is a cytotoxic quinoline-based alkaloid extracted from the Asian tree Camptotheca acuminata. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2828" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2828" NCI Thesaurus)
trabectedin	A tetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloid isolated from the marine tunicate Ecteinascidia turbinate with potential antineoplastic activity. Binding to the minor groove of DNA, trabectedin inteferes with the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair machinery to induce lethal DNA strand breaks.and blocks the cell cycle in the G2 phase. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1691" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1691" NCI Thesaurus)
hydromorphone	An opioid analgesic made from MORPHINE and used mainly as an analgesic. It has a shorter duration of action than morphine.
chinidin	An optical isomer of quinine, extracted from the bark of the CHINCHONA tree and similar plant species. This alkaloid dampens the excitability of cardiac and skeletal muscles by blocking sodium and potassium currents across cellular membranes. It prolongs cellular ACTION POTENTIALS, and decreases automaticity. Quinidine also blocks muscarinic and alpha-adrenergic neurotransmission.
theophylline	A methyl xanthine derivative from tea with diuretic, smooth muscle relaxant, bronchial dilation, cardiac and central nervous system stimulant activities. Theophylline inhibits the 3',5'-CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE PHOSPHODIESTERASE that degrades CYCLIC AMP thus potentiates the actions of agents that act through ADENYLYL CYCLASES and cyclic AMP.
opiate	broad family of plant alkaloids with narcotic effects; historically used as sedatives, anesthetics, analgesics, and euphoriants; heroin and morphine are highly addictive, abused drugs.
product containing alcuronium	A non-depolarizing skeletal muscle relaxant similar to TUBOCURARINE. It is used as an anesthesia adjuvant.
apomorphine	A derivative of morphine that is a dopamine D2 agonist. It is a powerful emetic and has been used for that effect in acute poisoning. It has also been used in the diagnosis and treatment of parkinsonism, but its adverse effects limit its use.
atropine	An alkaloid, originally from Atropa belladonna, but found in other plants, mainly SOLANACEAE. Hyoscyamine is the 3(S)-endo isomer of atropine.
belladonna alkaloids - chemical	Alkaloids obtained from various plants, especially the deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna), variety acuminata; atropine, hyoscyamine and scopolamine are classical, specific antimuscarinic agents with many pharmacologic actions; used mainly as antispasmodics.
cocain	An alkaloid ester extracted from the leaves of plants including coca. It is a local anesthetic and vasoconstrictor and is clinically used for that purpose, particularly in the eye, ear, nose, and throat. It also has powerful central nervous system effects similar to the amphetamines and is a drug of abuse. Cocaine, like amphetamines, acts by multiple mechanisms on brain catecholaminergic neurons; the mechanism of its reinforcing effects is thought to involve inhibition of dopamine uptake.
hyoscine	anticholinergic alkaloid.
tubocurarine	A neuromuscular blocker and active ingredient in CURARE; plant based alkaloid of Menispermaceae.
homatropine	A synthetic tertiary amine alkaloid with antimuscarinic properties. Homatropine, a competitive inhibitor of acetylcholine at the muscarinic receptor, blocks parasympathetic nerve stimulation.
bupropion	A propiophenone-derived antidepressant and antismoking agent that inhibits the uptake of DOPAMINE.
methscopolamine	A muscarinic antagonist used to study binding characteristics of muscarinic cholinergic receptors.
camptothecin	An alkaloid isolated from the stem wood of the Chinese tree, Camptotheca acuminata. This compound selectively inhibits the nuclear enzyme DNA TOPOISOMERASES, TYPE I. Several semisynthetic analogs of camptothecin have demonstrated antitumor activity.
benzatropine	A centrally active muscarinic antagonist that has been used in the symptomatic treatment of PARKINSON DISEASE. Benztropine also inhibits the uptake of dopamine.
emetine - chemical	The principal alkaloid of ipecac, from the ground roots of Uragoga (or Cephaelis) ipecacuanha or U. acuminata, of the Rubiaceae. It is used as an amebicide in many different preparations and may cause serious cardiac, hepatic, or renal damage and violent diarrhea and vomiting. Emetine inhibits protein synthesis in EUKARYOTIC CELLS but not PROKARYOTIC CELLS.
ergot alkaloids	Alkaloids originally isolated from the ergot fungus Claviceps purpurea (Hypocreaceae). They include compounds that are structurally related to ergoline (ERGOLINES) and ergotamine (ERGOTAMINES). Many of the ergot alkaloids act as alpha-adrenergic antagonists.
d-tubocurarine	A neuromuscular blocker and active ingredient in CURARE; plant based alkaloid of Menispermaceae.
topotecan	antineoplastic drug which acts as a DNA topoisomerase inhibitor.
opium alkaloids	broad family of plant alkaloids with narcotic effects; historically used as sedatives, anesthetics, analgesics, and euphoriants; heroin and morphine are highly addictive, abused drugs.
rauvolfia	A plant genus of the APOCYNACEAE or dogbane family. Alkaloids from plants in this genus have been used as tranquilizers and antihypertensive agents. RESERPINE is derived from R. serpentina.
anabasine	A piperidine botanical insecticide.
nicotina	Nicotine is highly toxic alkaloid. It is the prototypical agonist at nicotinic cholinergic receptors where it dramatically stimulates neurons and ultimately blocks synaptic transmission. Nicotine is also important medically because of its presence in tobacco smoke.
dentoxifylline	A METHYLXANTHINE derivative that inhibits phosphodiesterase and affects blood rheology. It improves blood flow by increasing erythrocyte and leukocyte flexibility. It also inhibits platelet aggregation. Pentoxifylline modulates immunologic activity by stimulating cytokine production.
psilocybine	Psilocybin je psychedelický indol ze skupiny tryptaminů, obsažený v různých druzích hub, např. rodu Psilocybe (lysohlávka), Panaeolus (kropenatec), nebo Gymnopilus (šupinovka). Účinky psilocybinu jsou vysoce nepředvídatelné a variabilní. Existují důkazy, které naznačují, že psychoaktivní houby byly používány lidmi v náboženských ceremoniích po tisíce let. (upraveno podle Wikipedie 2020 http://www.cs.wikipedia.org/)
staurosporine	exhibits cytotoxic or antitumor properties; naturally derived from cultures of Streptomyces; inhibits protein kinase C.
noscapine	A naturally occurring opium alkaloid that is a centrally acting antitussive agent.
tropane	N-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octanes best known for the ones found in PLANTS.
opiate alkaloid	broad family of plant alkaloids with narcotic effects; historically used as sedatives, anesthetics, analgesics, and euphoriants; heroin and morphine are highly addictive, abused drugs.
alkalosis nos	A pathological condition that removes acid or adds base to the body fluids.
ph increased	An abnormally high blood pH (usually defined as 7.41 or above). [PMID:24381489]
alkalemia	An abnormally high blood pH (usually defined as 7.41 or above). [PMID:24381489]
l-arg	An essential amino acid that is physiologically active in the L-form.
nacl - sodium chloride	A ubiquitous sodium salt that is commonly used to season food.
disorder metabolic alkalosis	Abnormally increased pH levels in the blood due to excessive loss of acid and/or accumulation of base.
body systems	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
metabolic alkalosis	Abnormally increased pH levels in the blood due to excessive loss of acid and/or accumulation of base.
pituitary diabetes insipidus	Bristfällig utsöndring av vasopressin från neurohypofysen. Kliniska symtom är extrem törst (polydipsi) och nedsatt serumosmolalitet. Tänkbara orsaker kan vara skallskada, sviter av nervkirurgi, hypotalamustumörer, hypofystumörer, infektioner i det centrala nervsystemet, hypofysapoplexi, cerebrovaskulära störningar, granulomatösa sjukdomar (t ex sarkoidos) och andra tillstånd. Sjukdomen kan också vara ärftlig, som ett autosomalt eller recessivt drag.
increase ph	An abnormally high blood pH (usually defined as 7.41 or above). [PMID:24381489]
increasing ph	An abnormally high blood pH (usually defined as 7.41 or above). [PMID:24381489]
alkaloses	A pathological condition that removes acid or adds base to the body fluids.
respiratory alkalosis	A state due to excess loss of carbon dioxide from the body. (Dorland, 27th ed)
elevated ph	An abnormally high blood pH (usually defined as 7.41 or above). [PMID:24381489]
increased ph	An abnormally high blood pH (usually defined as 7.41 or above). [PMID:24381489]
alkalosis respiratory	A state due to excess loss of carbon dioxide from the body. (Dorland, 27th ed)
respiratory observation	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the respiratory system.
respiratory alkaloses	A state due to excess loss of carbon dioxide from the body. (Dorland, 27th ed)
respiratory disease nos	Diseases of the respiratory system in general or unspecified or for a specific respiratory disease not available.
respiratory	The tubular and cavernous organs and structures, by means of which pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange between ambient air and the blood are brought about.
acid-base management: respiratory alkalosis	Promotion of acid-base balance and prevention of complications resulting from serum PaCO2 levels lower than desired
alkane	The generic name for the group of aliphatic hydrocarbons Cn-H2n+2. They are denoted by the suffix -ane. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
ethane	A two carbon alkane with the formula H3C-CH3.
alkanes	The generic name for the group of aliphatic hydrocarbons Cn-H2n+2. They are denoted by the suffix -ane. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
propane	A three carbon alkane with the formula H3CCH2CH3.
hydrocarbons	Organic compounds that primarily contain carbon and hydrogen atoms with the carbon atoms forming a linear or circular structure.
methane	The simplest saturated hydrocarbon. It is a colorless, flammable gas, slightly soluble in water. It is one of the chief constituents of natural gas and is formed in the decomposition of organic matter. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
hydrocarbon	Organic compounds that primarily contain carbon and hydrogen atoms with the carbon atoms forming a linear or circular structure.
deficiency of homogentisicase	An inborn error of amino acid metabolism resulting from a defect in the enzyme HOMOGENTISATE 1,2-DIOXYGENASE, an enzyme involved in the breakdown of PHENYLALANINE and TYROSINE. It is characterized by accumulation of HOMOGENTISIC ACID in the urine, OCHRONOSIS in various tissues, and ARTHRITIS.
hunched back	Deformities of the SPINE characterized by an exaggerated convexity of the vertebral column. The forward bending of the thoracic region usually is more than 40 degrees. This deformity sometimes is called round back or hunchback.
alkaptonuria	An inborn error of amino acid metabolism resulting from a defect in the enzyme HOMOGENTISATE 1,2-DIOXYGENASE, an enzyme involved in the breakdown of PHENYLALANINE and TYROSINE. It is characterized by accumulation of HOMOGENTISIC ACID in the urine, OCHRONOSIS in various tissues, and ARTHRITIS.
autosomal recessive	Autosomal recessive inheritance refers to genetic conditions that occur only when mutations are present in both copies of a given gene (i.e., the person is homozygous for a mutation, or carries two different mutations of the same gene, a state referred to as compound heterozygosity).
alcaptonuria	An inborn error of amino acid metabolism resulting from a defect in the enzyme HOMOGENTISATE 1,2-DIOXYGENASE, an enzyme involved in the breakdown of PHENYLALANINE and TYROSINE. It is characterized by accumulation of HOMOGENTISIC ACID in the urine, OCHRONOSIS in various tissues, and ARTHRITIS.
thickened achilles tendon	An abnormal thickening of the Achilles tendon. [HPO:probinson]
coronary artery calcification	An accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in a coronary artery. [HPO:probinson]
homogentisic acidura	An inborn error of amino acid metabolism resulting from a defect in the enzyme HOMOGENTISATE 1,2-DIOXYGENASE, an enzyme involved in the breakdown of PHENYLALANINE and TYROSINE. It is characterized by accumulation of HOMOGENTISIC ACID in the urine, OCHRONOSIS in various tissues, and ARTHRITIS.
ochronosis	The yellowish discoloration of connective tissue due to deposition of HOMOGENTISIC ACID (a brown-black pigment). This is due to defects in the metabolism of PHENYLALANINE and TYROSINE. Ochronosis occurs in ALKAPTONURIA, but has also been associated with exposure to certain chemicals (e.g., PHENOL, trinitrophenol, BENZENE DERIVATIVES).
homogentisic acid oxidase deficiency	An inborn error of amino acid metabolism resulting from a defect in the enzyme HOMOGENTISATE 1,2-DIOXYGENASE, an enzyme involved in the breakdown of PHENYLALANINE and TYROSINE. It is characterized by accumulation of HOMOGENTISIC ACID in the urine, OCHRONOSIS in various tissues, and ARTHRITIS.
deficiencies enzymes	abnormal and/or pathologic state usually due to mutations in structural genes for enzyme polypeptides, manifesting as metabolic abnormalities.
aciduria	Excretion of urine with an acid pH, i.e., having an increased hydrogen ion concentration. [HPO:probinson]
renal/urologic body system	Organs of urine formation and secretion
alkenes	Unsaturated hydrocarbons of the type Cn-H2n, indicated by the suffix -ene. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p408)
epoxy resins	Polymeric resins derived from OXIRANES and characterized by strength and thermosetting properties. Epoxy resins are often used as dental materials.
olefin	Unsaturated hydrocarbons of the type Cn-H2n, indicated by the suffix -ene. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p408)
epoxy resin	Polymeric resins derived from OXIRANES and characterized by strength and thermosetting properties. Epoxy resins are often used as dental materials.
squalene	A natural 30-carbon triterpene.
alkene	Unsaturated hydrocarbons of the type Cn-H2n, indicated by the suffix -ene. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p408)
chloroethene	A gas that has been used as an aerosol propellant and is the starting material for polyvinyl resins. Toxicity studies have shown various adverse effects, particularly the occurrence of liver neoplasms.
olefins	Unsaturated hydrocarbons of the type Cn-H2n, indicated by the suffix -ene. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p408)
divinyl	A synthetic, colorless gas that is practically insoluble in water and soluble in ethanol, ether, acetone and benzene. It is used primarily as a monomer to manufacture many different types of polymers and copolymers and as a chemical intermediate in the production of industrial chemicals. When heated, 1,3-butadiene emits acrid fumes and is flammable. In the presence of air, it oxidizes to form explosive peroxides. The primary route of potential human exposure to this compound is inhalation. Acute exposure to 1,3-butadiene can cause irritation of the eyes, nasal passages and throat. At very high concentrations, inhalation of this gas can result in headache, fatigue, decreased blood pressure and pulse rate, central nervous system damage and unconsciousness. It is known to be a human carcinogen. (NCI05)
vinylidene chloride	1,1-dichloroethene; 1,1-dichloroethylene; C2H2Cl2.
cycloalkenes	cyclic unsaturated hydrocarbon having at least one carbon-carbon double bond in the ring.
vinyl chloride	A gas that has been used as an aerosol propellant and is the starting material for polyvinyl resins. Toxicity studies have shown various adverse effects, particularly the occurrence of liver neoplasms.
biethylene	A synthetic, colorless gas that is practically insoluble in water and soluble in ethanol, ether, acetone and benzene. It is used primarily as a monomer to manufacture many different types of polymers and copolymers and as a chemical intermediate in the production of industrial chemicals. When heated, 1,3-butadiene emits acrid fumes and is flammable. In the presence of air, it oxidizes to form explosive peroxides. The primary route of potential human exposure to this compound is inhalation. Acute exposure to 1,3-butadiene can cause irritation of the eyes, nasal passages and throat. At very high concentrations, inhalation of this gas can result in headache, fatigue, decreased blood pressure and pulse rate, central nervous system damage and unconsciousness. It is known to be a human carcinogen. (NCI05)
cyclic alkene	cyclic unsaturated hydrocarbon having at least one carbon-carbon double bond in the ring.
sulfonates	any compound of the type R-SO3-.
tesaglitazar	A dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonist, with hypoglycemic activity. Tesaglitazar is more potent on the gamma subtype than on the alpha subtype of PPAR. This agent improves atherogenic dyslipidemia but may cause an increase in fibrosarcoma formation.
alkylating agents	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
n ethyl n nitrosourea	A nitrosourea compound with alkylating, carcinogenic, and mutagenic properties.
chlorethazine	A biologic alkylating agent that exerts its cytotoxic effects by forming DNA ADDUCTS and DNA interstrand crosslinks, thereby inhibiting rapidly proliferating cells. The hydrochloride is an antineoplastic agent used to treat HODGKIN DISEASE and LYMPHOMA.
alkylating drugs	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
sufuric acid diethyl ester	A colorless, corrosive, oily liquid that darkens with age and has a faint peppermint odor. Diethyl sulfate is mainly used as an ethylating agent in organic synthesis and in the dye and textile manufacturing. Exposure to this substance results in severe irritation to the eyes, skin and respiratory tract. It is a possible mutagen and is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen based on evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals and may be associated with developing laryngeal cancer. (NCI05)
dimethyl sulfate	An odorless, corrosive, oily liquid with an onion-like odor that emits toxic fumes upon heating. Dimethyl sulfate is used in industry as a methylating agent in the manufacture of many organic chemicals. Inhalation exposure to its vapors is highly irritating to the eyes and lungs and may cause damage to the liver, kidney, heart and central nervous system, while dermal contact causes severe blistering. It is a possible mutagen and is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen based on evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. (NCI05)
alkylating agent	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
hepsulfam	A bisulfamic ester which is similar in structure to busulfan and belongs to the family of drugs known as alkylsulfonate alkylating agents. Hepsulfam forms covalent linkages with nucleophilic centers in DNA, resulting in depurination, base miscoding, strand scission, DNA-DNA and DNA-protein cross-linking, and cytotoxicity. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1123" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1123" NCI Thesaurus)
alkylating drug	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
bussulfam	An alkylating agent having a selective immunosuppressive effect on BONE MARROW. It has been used in the palliative treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (MYELOID LEUKEMIA, CHRONIC), but although symptomatic relief is provided, no permanent remission is brought about. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), busulfan is listed as a known carcinogen.
mechlorethamine	A biologic alkylating agent that exerts its cytotoxic effects by forming DNA ADDUCTS and DNA interstrand crosslinks, thereby inhibiting rapidly proliferating cells. The hydrochloride is an antineoplastic agent used to treat HODGKIN DISEASE and LYMPHOMA.
alkylating agent-containing product	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
mitomycin c	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
agents alkylating	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
iodoacetamide	An alkylating sulfhydryl reagent. Its actions are similar to those of iodoacetate.
tinidazole	A nitroimidazole alkylating agent that is used as an antitrichomonal agent against TRICHOMONAS VAGINALIS; ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA; and GIARDIA LAMBLIA infections. It also acts as an antibacterial agent for the treatment of BACTERIAL VAGINOSIS and anaerobic bacterial infections.
busulfan	An alkylating agent having a selective immunosuppressive effect on BONE MARROW. It has been used in the palliative treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (MYELOID LEUKEMIA, CHRONIC), but although symptomatic relief is provided, no permanent remission is brought about. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), busulfan is listed as a known carcinogen.
alkylators	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
peptide chloromethyl ketones	Inhibitors of SERINE ENDOPEPTIDASES and sulfhydryl group-containing enzymes. They act as alkylating agents and are known to interfere in the translation process.
alkylator	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
carmustine	A cell-cycle phase nonspecific alkylating antineoplastic agent. It is used in the treatment of brain tumors and various other malignant neoplasms. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p462) This substance may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen according to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985). (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
chlorbutine	A nitrogen mustard alkylating agent used as antineoplastic for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, and others. Although it is less toxic than most other nitrogen mustards, it has been listed as a known carcinogen in the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985). (Merck Index, 11th ed)
product containing cisplatin	An inorganic and water-soluble platinum complex. After undergoing hydrolysis, it reacts with DNA to produce both intra and interstrand crosslinks. These crosslinks appear to impair replication and transcription of DNA. The cytotoxicity of cisplatin correlates with cellular arrest in the G2 phase of the cell cycle.
streptozocin	An antibiotic that is produced by Stretomyces achromogenes. It is used as an antineoplastic agent and to induce diabetes in experimental animals.
thio-tepa	A very toxic alkylating antineoplastic agent also used as an insect sterilant. It causes skin, gastrointestinal, CNS, and bone marrow damage. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), thiotepa may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen (Merck Index, 11th ed).
diaziquone	A synthetic bifunctional quinone derivative with potential antineoplastic activity. Diaziquone alkylates and cross-links DNA during all phases of the cell cycle, resulting in disruption of DNA function, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis. This agent can also form free radicals, thereby initiating DNA damage via DNA strand breaks. Due to its lipophilicity, diaziquone readily crosses the blood brain barrier. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1363" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1363" NCI Thesaurus)
bendamustine	A bifunctional mechlorethamine derivative with alkylating and antimetabolite activities. Although the exact mechanism of action of bendamustine is unknown, this agent appears to alkylate and crosslink macromolecules, resulting in DNA, RNA and protein synthesis inhibition, and eventually the induction of apoptosis.
melphalan hydrochloride	A drug that is used to treat multiple myeloma and ovarian epithelial cancer and is being studied in the treatment of other types of cancer. It belongs to the family of drugs called alkylating agents.
antineoplastics	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
mitomycin	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
busulphan	An alkylating agent having a selective immunosuppressive effect on BONE MARROW. It has been used in the palliative treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (MYELOID LEUKEMIA, CHRONIC), but although symptomatic relief is provided, no permanent remission is brought about. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), busulfan is listed as a known carcinogen.
nitrogen mustard	A biologic alkylating agent that exerts its cytotoxic effects by forming DNA ADDUCTS and DNA interstrand crosslinks, thereby inhibiting rapidly proliferating cells. The hydrochloride is an antineoplastic agent used to treat HODGKIN DISEASE and LYMPHOMA.
chlormethine	A biologic alkylating agent that exerts its cytotoxic effects by forming DNA ADDUCTS and DNA interstrand crosslinks, thereby inhibiting rapidly proliferating cells. The hydrochloride is an antineoplastic agent used to treat HODGKIN DISEASE and LYMPHOMA.
tosyllysine chloromethyl ketone	An inhibitor of SERINE ENDOPEPTIDASES. Acts as an alkylating agent and is known to interfere with the translation process.
dibromomannitol	Brominated analog of MANNITOL which is an antineoplastic agent appearing to act as an alkylating agent.
pipobromanum	An antineoplastic agent that acts by alkylation.
methyl lomustine	4-Methyl derivative of LOMUSTINE; (CCNU). An antineoplastic agent which functions as an alkylating agent.
tretamine	Toxic alkylating agent used in industry; also as antineoplastic and research tool to produce chromosome aberrations and cancers.
uracil mustard	Nitrogen mustard derivative of URACIL. It is a alkylating antineoplastic agent that is used in lymphatic malignancies, and causes mainly gastrointestinal and bone marrow damage.
nitrogen mustard derivative product	A mustard agent containing nitrogen and chlorine atoms.
alkylating agent product	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
dacarbazina	An antineoplastic agent. It has significant activity against melanomas. (from Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 31st ed, p564)
mitoxantrone	An anthracenedione-derived antineoplastic agent.
nitrosourea	A class of compounds in which the core molecule is R-NO, where R is UREA.
cancer chemotherapeutic agents	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
estramustine phosphate sodium	The orally available disodium salt, monohydrate, of estramustine phosphate, a synthetic molecule that combines estradiol and nornitrogen mustard through a carbamate link. Estramustine and its major metabolite estramustine bind to microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) and tubulin, thereby inhibiting microtubule dynamics and leading to anaphase arrest in a dose-dependent fashion. This agent also exhibits anti-androgenic effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C480" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C480" NCI Thesaurus)
mitobronitol	Brominated analog of MANNITOL which is an antineoplastic agent appearing to act as an alkylating agent.
product containing alkylating agent	Highly reactive chemicals that introduce alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevent their proper functioning. Many are used as antineoplastic agents, but most are very toxic, with carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic, and immunosuppressant actions. They have also been used as components in poison gases.
methyl ccnu	4-Methyl derivative of LOMUSTINE; (CCNU). An antineoplastic agent which functions as an alkylating agent.
pixantrone	A synthetic, noncardiotoxic aza-anthracenedione analogue with potential antineoplastic activity. Pixantrone intercalates into DNA and induces topoisomerase II-mediated DNA strand crosslinks, resulting in inhibition of DNA replication and tumor cell cytotoxicity.
bendamustin	A bifunctional mechlorethamine derivative with alkylating and antimetabolite activities. Although the exact mechanism of action of bendamustine is unknown, this agent appears to alkylate and crosslink macromolecules, resulting in DNA, RNA and protein synthesis inhibition, and eventually the induction of apoptosis.
nitrogen mustard derivative antineoplastic agent	A mustard agent containing nitrogen and chlorine atoms.
anticancer agent	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
pipobroman	An antineoplastic agent that acts by alkylation.
nitrogen mustard derivative	A mustard agent containing nitrogen and chlorine atoms.
antitumor agent	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
tinidazole product	A nitroimidazole alkylating agent that is used as an antitrichomonal agent against TRICHOMONAS VAGINALIS; ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA; and GIARDIA LAMBLIA infections. It also acts as an antibacterial agent for the treatment of BACTERIAL VAGINOSIS and anaerobic bacterial infections.
mitomycin-c	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
alkylation	The covalent bonding of an alkyl group to an organic compound. It can occur by a simple addition reaction or by substitution of another functional group.
dealkylations	The removing of alkyl groups from a compound. (From McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, 5th ed)
methylation	Addition of methyl groups. In histo-chemistry methylation is used to esterify carboxyl groups and remove sulfate groups by treating tissue sections with hot methanol in the presence of hydrochloric acid. (From Stedman, 25th ed)
alkylations	The covalent bonding of an alkyl group to an organic compound. It can occur by a simple addition reaction or by substitution of another functional group.
acetylenic carbamate	A synthetic acetylenic carbamate, an alkylating agent, with antineoplastic activity.
acetylenic compounds	Hydrocarbons with at least one triple bond in the linear portion, of the general formula Cn-H2n-2.
alkynes	Hydrocarbons with at least one triple bond in the linear portion, of the general formula Cn-H2n-2.
product containing allantoin	A urea hydantoin that is found in URINE and PLANTS and is used in dermatological preparations.
dermatological agents	Drugs used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin.
allantoin	A urea hydantoin that is found in URINE and PLANTS and is used in dermatological preparations.
astringents	Agents, usually topical, that cause the contraction of tissues for the control of bleeding or secretions.
glyoxyldiureide	A urea hydantoin that is found in URINE and PLANTS and is used in dermatological preparations.
anti-psoriatic agent	Used topically or systemically, natural or synthetic Anti-psoriatic agents relieve symptoms of psoriasis by controlling rapid growth of skin cells, reducing DNA synthesis and mitotic activity in hyperplastic epidermis, and restoring normal epidermal cell proliferation and keratinization. (NCI04)
allantoin product	A urea hydantoin that is found in URINE and PLANTS and is used in dermatological preparations.
hydantoin	group of anticonvulsants containing an allantoin heterocyclic base.
agent dermatol	Drugs used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin.
drugs acting on the skin	Drugs used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin.
congenital skin anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
vaginal preparations allantoin vaginal	A urea hydantoin that is found in URINE and PLANTS and is used in dermatological preparations.
dermatologic agents	Drugs used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin.
allantois	An extra-embryonic membranous sac derived from the YOLK SAC of REPTILES; BIRDS; and MAMMALS. It lies between two other extra-embryonic membranes, the AMNION and the CHORION. The allantois serves to store urinary wastes and mediate exchange of gas and nutrients for the developing embryo.
extra-embryonic structure	Any anatomical structure that arises from the zygote but is external to the developing embryo.
allantoic membrane	An extra-embryonic membranous sac derived from the YOLK SAC of REPTILES; BIRDS; and MAMMALS. It lies between two other extra-embryonic membranes, the AMNION and the CHORION. The allantois serves to store urinary wastes and mediate exchange of gas and nutrients for the developing embryo.
umbilical cord	The flexible rope-like structure that connects a developing FETUS to the PLACENTA in mammals. The cord contains blood vessels which carry oxygen and nutrients from the mother to the fetus and waste products away from the fetus.
structure of allantois	An extra-embryonic membranous sac derived from the YOLK SAC of REPTILES; BIRDS; and MAMMALS. It lies between two other extra-embryonic membranes, the AMNION and the CHORION. The allantois serves to store urinary wastes and mediate exchange of gas and nutrients for the developing embryo.
embryo	Early stage in the development of a plant or an animal. In vertebrate animals (have a backbone or spinal column), this stage lasts from shortly after fertilization until all major body parts appear. In particular, in humans, this stage lasts from about 2 weeks after fertilization until the end of the seventh or eighth week of pregnancy.
alleles	Variant forms of the same gene, occupying the same locus on homologous CHROMOSOMES, and governing the variants in production of the same gene product.
laboratory procedure	Any procedure that involves testing or manipulating a sample of blood, urine, or other body substance in a laboratory setting.
genetic alleles	Variant forms of the same gene, occupying the same locus on homologous CHROMOSOMES, and governing the variants in production of the same gene product.
genetic test	Detection of a MUTATION; GENOTYPE; KARYOTYPE; or specific ALLELES associated with genetic traits, heritable diseases, or predisposition to a disease, or that may lead to the disease in descendants. It includes prenatal genetic testing.
laboratory procedures -general	Any procedure that involves testing or manipulating a sample of blood, urine, or other body substance in a laboratory setting.
intervention or procedure	In medicine, a treatment or action taken to prevent or treat disease, or improve health in other ways.
allele	Variant forms of the same gene, occupying the same locus on homologous CHROMOSOMES, and governing the variants in production of the same gene product.
genetic testing	Detection of a MUTATION; GENOTYPE; KARYOTYPE; or specific ALLELES associated with genetic traits, heritable diseases, or predisposition to a disease, or that may lead to the disease in descendants. It includes prenatal genetic testing.
low penetrance allele	A gene with a low probability of expression as a phenotype.
pftest	Terminology associated with the pharmacogenomics findings test name codelist of the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM).
pftestcd	Terminology relevant to the test codes that describe pharmacogenomics findings.
allergens	Antigen-type substances that produce immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE).
aspergillus fumigatus	A species of imperfect fungi from which the antibiotic fumigatin is obtained. Its spores may cause respiratory infection in birds and mammals.
allergen	Antigen-type substances that produce immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE).
auranofin	An oral chrysotherapeutic agent for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it is believed to act via immunological mechanisms and alteration of lysosomal enzyme activity. Its efficacy is slightly less than that of injected gold salts, but it is better tolerated, and side effects which occur are potentially less serious.
benzocaine	A surface anesthetic that acts by preventing transmission of impulses along NERVE FIBERS and at NERVE ENDINGS.
clorquinaldol product	Local anti-infective agent used for skin, gastrointestinal, and vaginal infections with fungi, protozoa, and certain bacteria. In animals, it causes central nervous system damage and is not administered parenterally. It is also used as antiseptic, fungistat, or deodorant.
chromium	A trace element that plays a role in glucose metabolism. It has the atomic symbol Cr, atomic number 24, and atomic weight 52. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP85-002,1985), chromium and some of its compounds have been listed as known carcinogens.
cobalt	A trace element that is a component of vitamin B12. It has the atomic symbol Co, atomic number 27, and atomic weight 58.93. It is used in nuclear weapons, alloys, and pigments. Deficiency in animals leads to anemia; its excess in humans can lead to erythrocytosis.
formaldehyde for treatment of warts	A highly reactive aldehyde gas formed by oxidation or incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons. In solution, it has a wide range of uses: in the manufacture of resins and textiles, as a disinfectant, and as a laboratory fixative or preservative. Formaldehyde solution (formalin) is considered a hazardous compound, and its vapor toxic. (From Reynolds, Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p717)
aurothioglucose	A thioglucose derivative used as an antirheumatic and experimentally to produce obesity in animals.
thiram-containing product	A dithiocarbamate chemical, used commercially in the rubber processing industry and as a fungicide. In vivo studies indicate that it inactivates the enzyme GLUTATHIONE REDUCTASE. It has mutagenic activity and may induce chromosomal aberrations.
geranyl alcohol	A terpene with two isoprene units head to tail with hydroxyl group attached to the head methyl group. The chemical structure is CC(=CCC\C(=C\CO)\C)C.
garlic	The alcoholic extract of the bulb or whole garlic plant Allium sativum (Liliaceae) with potential antineoplastic activity. The garlic plant has long been considered a beneficial plant for health and has been used as an antihelmintic, a rubefacient, an anti-infective, and an antihypertensive. Fresh or aged, garlic extracts contain compounds such as diallyl and allyl propyl disulfides with potent antioxidant, cholesterol-lowering properties; regular ingestion may be preventative for atherosclerosis and cardiovascular diseases. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C26069" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C26069" NCI Thesaurus)
apis mellifera	Honey bee.
ginger extract	An extract of the rhizome of the perennial plant Zingiber officinale with potential antineoplastic activity. Ginger extract contains a number of different phenolic compounds, some of which have displayed antineoplastic, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant activities. This agent also exhibits antiemetic properties.
flaxseed	a substance obtained from flaxseed plant
allergen solutions	Antigen-type substances that produce immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE).
cocoa extract	A dietary supplement containing cocoa extract derived from the cacao bean, with potential vasodilating, anti-inflammatory, cardiovascular protective, neuroprotective, cognition enhancing and chemopreventive activities. Cocoa extract contains flavonoids, including high levels of epicatechin, catechin, procyanidins and xanthines, such as theobromine. Upon oral administration, the bioactive ingredients in the cocoa extract inhibit angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and increase the production of nitric oxide (NO) through the activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS). This causes vasodilation, improves blood flow, and decreases blood pressure. The cocoa extract also improves insulin sensitivity, enhances cognition, and decreases the production of pro-inflammatory molecules. In addition, this extract exerts antioxidant effects and is able to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS). As a result, healthy cells are protected from oxidative stress and DNA damage.
avocado oil	The oil extracted from the fruits of Persea americana. Avocado oil is used is used as a food ingredient, as a cooking oil, and for lubrication and in cosmetics.
modifier	A chemical that influences the properties of another chemical or biological function. (NCI)
pediatric immunization terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support immunization in children (birth to 21 years of age).
sanitation	The development and establishment of environmental conditions favorable to the health of the public.
medicine	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
allergen extract	A complex mixture consisting of allergenic proteins derived from natural sources. May be used for diagnosis or therapy. Extracts used for diagnosis have the same active ingredients as those used for therapy but may differ by concentration, diluent or other additives.
crush syndromes	Severe systemic manifestation of trauma and ischemia involving soft tissues, principally skeletal muscle, due to prolonged severe crushing. It leads to increased permeability of the cell membrane and to the release of potassium, enzymes, and myoglobin from within cells. Ischemic renal dysfunction secondary to hypotension and diminished renal perfusion results in acute tubular necrosis and uremia.
occupational eczema	A recurrent contact dermatitis caused by substances found in the work place.
allergen product	Antigen-type substances that produce immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE).
rast test	An in vitro allergen radioimmunoassay in which allergens are coupled to an immunosorbent. The coupled allergens bind the IgE in the sera of patients which in turn binds radioisotope-labeled anti-IMMUNOGLOBULIN E antibodies.
photoallergic eczema	A delayed hypersensitivity involving the reaction between sunlight or other radiant energy source and a chemical substance to which the individual has been previously exposed and sensitized. It manifests as a papulovesicular, eczematous, or exudative dermatitis occurring chiefly on the light-exposed areas of the skin.
allergenic diagnostic allergen extract	A complex mixture consisting of allergenic proteins derived from natural sources. May be used for diagnosis or therapy. Extracts used for diagnosis have the same active ingredients as those used for therapy but may differ by concentration, diluent or other additives.
allergic response to latex	Pathological reaction to latex products
allergenic extracts	A complex mixture consisting of allergenic proteins derived from natural sources. May be used for diagnosis or therapy. Extracts used for diagnosis have the same active ingredients as those used for therapy but may differ by concentration, diluent or other additives.
crush syndrome	Severe systemic manifestation of trauma and ischemia involving soft tissues, principally skeletal muscle, due to prolonged severe crushing. It leads to increased permeability of the cell membrane and to the release of potassium, enzymes, and myoglobin from within cells. Ischemic renal dysfunction secondary to hypotension and diminished renal perfusion results in acute tubular necrosis and uremia.
dermatitis occupational	A recurrent contact dermatitis caused by substances found in the work place.
photoallergic dermatitis	A delayed hypersensitivity involving the reaction between sunlight or other radiant energy source and a chemical substance to which the individual has been previously exposed and sensitized. It manifests as a papulovesicular, eczematous, or exudative dermatitis occurring chiefly on the light-exposed areas of the skin.
diagnostic allergenic extract	A complex mixture consisting of allergenic proteins derived from natural sources. May be used for diagnosis or therapy. Extracts used for diagnosis have the same active ingredients as those used for therapy but may differ by concentration, diluent or other additives.
rndx latex allergy response	Pathological reaction to latex products
immunogens	Substances that are recognized by the immune system and induce an immune reaction.
atopic rhinitis	Allergic rhinitis with a positive skin prick test (SPT equal or greater than 3 mm) to any allergen.
chronic rhinitis	Chronic inflammation of the nasal mucosa. [HPO:probinson]
allergic rhinitis due to allergen	Inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes caused by an IgE-mediated response to external allergens. The inflammation may also involve the mucous membranes of the sinuses, eyes, middle ear, and pharynx. Symptoms include sneezing, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, and itching. It may lead to fatigue, drowsiness, and malaise thus causing impairment of the quality of life.
immune system structure	The body's defense mechanism against foreign organisms or substances and deviant native cells. It includes the humoral immune response and the cell-mediated response and consists of a complex of interrelated cellular, molecular, and genetic components.
rhinitis allergic atopic	Allergic rhinitis with a positive skin prick test (SPT equal or greater than 3 mm) to any allergen.
chronic inflammation	An inflammatory process characterized by the presence of lymphocytes and plasma cells and the absence of polymorphonuclear neutrophils.
mucous membrane	An EPITHELIUM with MUCUS-secreting cells, such as GOBLET CELLS. It forms the lining of many body cavities, such as the DIGESTIVE TRACT, the RESPIRATORY TRACT, and the reproductive tract. Mucosa, rich in blood and lymph vessels, comprises an inner epithelium, a middle layer (lamina propria) of loose CONNECTIVE TISSUE, and an outer layer (muscularis mucosae) of SMOOTH MUSCLE CELLS that separates the mucosa from submucosa.
nasal passages	The proximal portion of the respiratory passages on either side of the NASAL SEPTUM. Nasal cavities, extending from the nares to the NASOPHARYNX, are lined with ciliated NASAL MUCOSA.
chronic	Slow, creeping onset, slow progress and long continuance of disease manifestations. [HPO:probinson]
mucous inflammation	Slemhinneinflammation med brännande eller stickande känsla. Tillståndet kännetecknas av atrofi av det skvamösa epitelet, kärlskador, inflammatorisk infiltration och sårbildning. Inflammationen uppträder vanligen i anslutning till munnens slemhinneskikt, mag-tarmkanalen eller andningsvägarna, pga kemisk irritation, kemoterapi eller strålbehandling.
atopic reaction	genetic predisposition toward the development of immediate (type I) hypersensitivity reactions against common environmental antigens (atopic allergy); the most common clinical manifestation is allergic rhinitis; bronchial asthmas, atopic dermatitis and food allergy also occur.
mucosa	An EPITHELIUM with MUCUS-secreting cells, such as GOBLET CELLS. It forms the lining of many body cavities, such as the DIGESTIVE TRACT, the RESPIRATORY TRACT, and the reproductive tract. Mucosa, rich in blood and lymph vessels, comprises an inner epithelium, a middle layer (lamina propria) of loose CONNECTIVE TISSUE, and an outer layer (muscularis mucosae) of SMOOTH MUSCLE CELLS that separates the mucosa from submucosa.
mucosa of nose	The mucous lining of the NASAL CAVITY, including lining of the nostril (vestibule) and the OLFACTORY MUCOSA. Nasal mucosa consists of ciliated cells, GOBLET CELLS, brush cells, small granule cells, basal cells (STEM CELLS) and glands containing both mucous and serous cells.
inflammation mucous membrane	Slemhinneinflammation med brännande eller stickande känsla. Tillståndet kännetecknas av atrofi av det skvamösa epitelet, kärlskador, inflammatorisk infiltration och sårbildning. Inflammationen uppträder vanligen i anslutning till munnens slemhinneskikt, mag-tarmkanalen eller andningsvägarna, pga kemisk irritation, kemoterapi eller strålbehandling.
allergy	Altered reactivity to an antigen, which can result in pathologic reactions upon subsequent exposure to that particular antigen.
allergic rhinitis	Inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes caused by an IgE-mediated response to external allergens. The inflammation may also involve the mucous membranes of the sinuses, eyes, middle ear, and pharynx. Symptoms include sneezing, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, and itching. It may lead to fatigue, drowsiness, and malaise thus causing impairment of the quality of life.
allergic; rhinitis	Inflammation of the nasal mucous membranes caused by an IgE-mediated response to external allergens. The inflammation may also involve the mucous membranes of the sinuses, eyes, middle ear, and pharynx. Symptoms include sneezing, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, and itching. It may lead to fatigue, drowsiness, and malaise thus causing impairment of the quality of life.
nasal cavity	The proximal portion of the respiratory passages on either side of the NASAL SEPTUM. Nasal cavities, extending from the nares to the NASOPHARYNX, are lined with ciliated NASAL MUCOSA.
head+neck	Anatomical cluster which has as direct parts head and neck.
sinonasal tract	The area of the head comprised of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses.
allergy and immunology	A medical specialty concerned with the hypersensitivity of the individual to foreign substances and protection from the resultant infection or disorder.
immunology	branch of biomedical science concerned with the response of the organism to antigenic challenge, the recognition of self and foreign substances, and the biological, serological and physical chemical aspects of immune phenomena.
immunol allergy	A medical specialty concerned with the hypersensitivity of the individual to foreign substances and protection from the resultant infection or disorder.
medical specialties	Various branches of medical practice limited to specialized areas.
allyl cinerins	Syntetiska analoger till de naturligt förekommande insekticiderna cinerin, jasmolin och pyretrin.
allyl cinerin	Syntetiska analoger till de naturligt förekommande insekticiderna cinerin, jasmolin och pyretrin.
allethrin	Syntetiska analoger till de naturligt förekommande insekticiderna cinerin, jasmolin och pyretrin.
cyclic ketone	any ketone containing a ring structure.
pyrethroid product	active insecticidal constituents of pyrethrum (Chrysanthemum cinerariifolum) flowers.
allethrins	Syntetiska analoger till de naturligt förekommande insekticiderna cinerin, jasmolin och pyretrin.
allied health occupation	Occupations of medical personnel who are not physicians, and are qualified by special training and, frequently, by licensure to work in supporting roles in the health care field. These occupations include, but are not limited to, medical technology, physical therapy, physician assistant, etc.
allied health professionals	Health care workers specially trained and licensed to assist and support the work of health professionals. Often used synonymously with paramedical personnel, the term generally refers to all health care workers who perform tasks which must otherwise be performed by a physician or other health professional.
emergency medical technician	Paramedical personnel trained to provide basic emergency care and life support under the supervision of physicians and/or nurses. These services may be carried out at the site of the emergency, in the ambulance, or in a health care institution.
profession allied to medicine	Health care workers specially trained and licensed to assist and support the work of health professionals. Often used synonymously with paramedical personnel, the term generally refers to all health care workers who perform tasks which must otherwise be performed by a physician or other health professional.
nurse's aides	Allied health personnel who assist the professional nurse in routine duties.
allied health professional	Health care workers specially trained and licensed to assist and support the work of health professionals. Often used synonymously with paramedical personnel, the term generally refers to all health care workers who perform tasks which must otherwise be performed by a physician or other health professional.
medics	An individual trained and certified to provide all basic and intermediate life support measures in addition to using invasive medical procedures (including intravenous therapy, cardiac defibrillation, administering medications and solutions, and using ventilation devices) as dictated by state law and performed under medical control in case of medical emergencies, hazardous materials exposure, child birth, abuse, fires, flood, accidents, trauma, and psychiatric crises.
auxiliary health personnel	Health care workers specially trained and licensed to assist and support the work of health professionals. Often used synonymously with paramedical personnel, the term generally refers to all health care workers who perform tasks which must otherwise be performed by a physician or other health professional.
doctor assistant	Health professionals who practice medicine as members of a team with their supervising physicians. They deliver a broad range of medical and surgical services to diverse populations in rural and urban settings. Duties may include physical exams, diagnosis and treatment of disease, interpretation of tests, assist in surgery, and prescribe medications. (from http://www.aapa.orglabout-pas accessed 2114/2011)
allied health occup	Occupations of medical personnel who are not physicians, and are qualified by special training and, frequently, by licensure to work in supporting roles in the health care field. These occupations include, but are not limited to, medical technology, physical therapy, physician assistant, etc.
allied health personnel	Health care workers specially trained and licensed to assist and support the work of health professionals. Often used synonymously with paramedical personnel, the term generally refers to all health care workers who perform tasks which must otherwise be performed by a physician or other health professional.
optometrist	Qualified professionals trained in primary eye and vision care, including measurement of visual abilities, diagnosing disorders of the visual system and provision of treatment such as prescriptions for correction of visual defects with lenses or glasses and vision therapy.
psychologists	A psychologist is an individual who is licensed to practice psychology which is defined as the observation, description, evaluation, interpretation, and modification of human behavior by the application of psychological principles, methods, and procedures, for the purpose of preventing or eliminating symptomatic, maladaptive, or undesired behavior and of enhancing interpersonal relationships, work and life adjustment, personal effectiveness, behavioral health, and mental health. The practice of psychology includes, but is not limited to, psychological testing and the evaluation or assessment of personal characteristics, such as intelligence, personality, abilities, interests, aptitudes, and neuropsychological functioning; counseling, psychoanalysis, psychotherapy, hypnosis, biofeedback, and behavior analysis and therapy; diagnosis and treatment of mental and emotional disorder or disability, alcoholism and substance abuse, disorders of habit or conduct, as well as of the psychological aspects of physical illness, accident, injury, or disability; and psycheducational evaluation, therapy, remediation, and consultation. Psychological services may be rendered to individuals, families, groups and the public.
nutritionists	Persons specially trained in NUTRITION SCIENCES.
supportive medical personnel	Health care workers specially trained and licensed to assist and support the work of health professionals. Often used synonymously with paramedical personnel, the term generally refers to all health care workers who perform tasks which must otherwise be performed by a physician or other health professional.
radiation therapist	An allied health professional who administers radiation in various forms using varying methods of administration.
art therapist	(1) An individual who uses art to achieve the therapeutic goals of symptom relief, emotional integration, and recovery from or adjustment to illness or disability. (2) An art therapist uses a form of treatment that enables patients with mental or physical disabilities to use art as a way of expressing and dealing with feelings and inner conflicts. (3) An individual who uses arts modalities and creative processes during intentional intervention in therapeutic, rehabilitative, community, or educational settings to foster health, communication, and expression; promote the integration of physical, emotional, cognitive, and social functioning; enhance self-awareness; and facilitate change.
orthotist	A health care professional who is specifically educated and trained to manage comprehensive orthotic patient care, including musculoskeletal and neuromuscular anomalies resulting from injuries or disease processes involving the lower extremity, upper extremity or spinal segment/s and positional deformation of the cranium. Orthotists assess specific patient needs, formulate an appropriate treatment plan, implement the treatment plan and provide follow-up care.
acupuncturist	A person trained in acupuncture (therapy that uses thin needles inserted through the skin at specific points on the body to control pain and other symptoms). Acupuncture is a type of complementary and alternative medicine.
counselor	Professionals trained in providing information, guidance, and recommendations to individual clients or families to support their decision making and development of coping skills.
dietitians	Persons specially trained and licensed in NUTRITION SCIENCES and DIETETICS.
adjunct health personnel	Health care workers specially trained and licensed to assist and support the work of health professionals. Often used synonymously with paramedical personnel, the term generally refers to all health care workers who perform tasks which must otherwise be performed by a physician or other health professional.
health profession	A person qualified to be engaged in activity directed at preservation of mental and physical health by diseases prevention and treatment as a source of livelihood. (NCI)
audiologist	A trained non-medical health professional who specializes in the identification, testing, habilitation and rehabilitation of hearing loss and other auditory and balance disorders. Particularly, an audiologist may be involved in diagnostic and screening procedures to determine hearing deficits, as well as in assessment of amplification devices and instruction in their care, training in speechreading, and may serve as consultant to government and industry on issues concerning environmental, noise-induced hearing loss. Certification requirements for clinical audiology professional are currently defined at a single level - Certificate of Clinical Competency.
nutritionist	Persons specially trained in NUTRITION SCIENCES.
podiatrists	A doctor who specializes in the care of the foot and ankle.
speech and language therapist	A specialist who evaluates and treats people with communication and swallowing problems.
epidemiologist	Qualified medical professionals who study the causes, incidence, and characteristic behavior of disease outbreaks or other health-related conditions and determine the interrelationships of hosts, agents, and environment related to the distribution and control of diseases.
dietician	Persons specially trained and licensed in NUTRITION SCIENCES and DIETETICS.
disease manager	A person who has the responsibility of communicating and coordinating healthcare interventions for individuals in populations with a specific condition.
healthcare professional	A person qualified to be engaged in activity directed at preservation of mental and physical health by diseases prevention and treatment as a source of livelihood. (NCI)
allium	A genus of the plant family Amaryllidaceae. Many produce pungent, often bacteriostatic and physiologically active compounds and are used as VEGETABLES; CONDIMENTS; and medicament, the latter in traditional medicine.
chives	A plant in the genus ALLIUM, similar to ONIONS.
liliaceae	A monocot family within the order Liliales.
allium schoenoprasum whole	A plant in the genus ALLIUM, similar to ONIONS.
family liliaceae	A monocot family within the order Liliales.
alloisoleucine	The determination of the amount of alloisoleucine present in a sample.
allo-ile	The optically active form of the amino acid alloisoleucine with an L-(2S,3R)-configuration, derived from endogenous L-isoleucine, that is an intermediate in the metabolism of branched-chain amino acids. Detection of alloisoleucine in plasma is diagnostic for maple-syrup urine disease (MSUD).
branched chain amino acids	Amino acids which have a branched carbon chain.
allomyces	A genus of aquatic fungi in the phylum BLASTOCLADIOMYCOTA. It is abundant in warmer climates and exhibits true alternation of generations.
fungus	heterotrophic, multicellular organisms made up of filamentous cells; cells have chitin walls; no chlorophyll; saprophytic or parasitic types; sexual or asexual spore formation; terrestrial or aquatic.
allophanate hydrolase	An enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of allophanic acid to two molecules of ammonia plus two molecules of "active carbon dioxide". EC 3.5.1.54.
allopurinol	A XANTHINE OXIDASE inhibitor that decreases URIC ACID production. It also acts as an antimetabolite on some simpler organisms.
dideoxyinosine -retired-	A dideoxynucleoside compound in which the 3'-hydroxy group on the sugar moiety has been replaced by a hydrogen. This modification prevents the formation of phosphodiester linkages which are needed for the completion of nucleic acid chains. Didanosine is a potent inhibitor of HIV replication, acting as a chain-terminator of viral DNA by binding to reverse transcriptase; ddI is then metabolized to dideoxyadenosine triphosphate, its putative active metabolite.
antimetabolites	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
product containing enzyme inhibitor	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
product containing allopurinol	A XANTHINE OXIDASE inhibitor that decreases URIC ACID production. It also acts as an antimetabolite on some simpler organisms.
antigout agent	Agents that increase uric acid excretion by the kidney (URICOSURIC AGENTS), decrease uric acid production (antihyperuricemics), or alleviate the pain and inflammation of acute attacks of gout.
allopurinol - chemical	A XANTHINE OXIDASE inhibitor that decreases URIC ACID production. It also acts as an antimetabolite on some simpler organisms.
sodium allopurinol	The sodium form of allopurinol, which is a structural isomer of hypoxanthine. Allopurinol inhibits xanthine oxidase, an enzyme that converts oxypurines to uric acid. By blocking the production of uric acid, this agent decreases serum and urine concentrations of uric acid, thereby providing protection against uric acid-mediated end organ damage in conditions associated with excessive production of uric acid, i.e. the massive cell lysis associated with the treatment of some malignancies. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2564" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2564" NCI Thesaurus)
enzyme inhib	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
allopurinolum	A XANTHINE OXIDASE inhibitor that decreases URIC ACID production. It also acts as an antimetabolite on some simpler organisms.
enzyme inhibitor protein	A class of proteins that are involved in the inhibition of enzymes.
drugs gout	Agents that increase uric acid excretion by the kidney (URICOSURIC AGENTS), decrease uric acid production (antihyperuricemics), or alleviate the pain and inflammation of acute attacks of gout.
gout suppressants	Agents that increase uric acid excretion by the kidney (URICOSURIC AGENTS), decrease uric acid production (antihyperuricemics), or alleviate the pain and inflammation of acute attacks of gout.
allopurinol sodium	The sodium form of allopurinol, which is a structural isomer of hypoxanthine. Allopurinol inhibits xanthine oxidase, an enzyme that converts oxypurines to uric acid. By blocking the production of uric acid, this agent decreases serum and urine concentrations of uric acid, thereby providing protection against uric acid-mediated end organ damage in conditions associated with excessive production of uric acid, i.e. the massive cell lysis associated with the treatment of some malignancies. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2564" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2564" NCI Thesaurus)
xanthine oxidase inhibitor product	any substance or agent which suppresses, prevents or opposes the action of xanthine oxidase.
xanthine oxidase inhibitor	any substance or agent which suppresses, prevents or opposes the action of xanthine oxidase.
antigout agents	Agents that increase uric acid excretion by the kidney (URICOSURIC AGENTS), decrease uric acid production (antihyperuricemics), or alleviate the pain and inflammation of acute attacks of gout.
enzyme inhibitor product	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
allosteric regulations	The modification of the reactivity of ENZYMES by the binding of effectors to sites (ALLOSTERIC SITES) on the enzymes other than the substrate BINDING SITES.
allosteric site	A site on an enzyme which upon binding of a modulator, causes the enzyme to undergo a conformational change that may alter its catalytic or binding properties.
receptor site	The parts of a macromolecule that directly participate in its specific combination with another molecule.
alloxan	Acidic compound formed by oxidation of URIC ACID. It is isolated as an efflorescent crystalline hydrate.
metallic alloy	A mixture of metallic elements or compounds with other metallic or metalloid elements in varying proportions.
low-melting alloys	Alloys with a composition that usually melts at temperatures below the temperature of boiling water (100 degrees Celsius [212 degrees Fahrenheit]) and that are commonly known as low-temperature melting alloys. These alloys include a variety of metal compositions; low-temperature melting alloys can expand up to 3.3% when solidifying from liquid to solid, this property permits its expansion to cover possible holes in casting procedures. An eutectic alloy that melts at 70 degrees Celsius (158 degrees Fahrenheit) and has a composition of 50% bismuth, 26.7% lead, 13.3% tin, and 10% cadmium by weight (known under the names of Wood metal, Lipowitz's alloy, and Cerrobend alloy) is very commonly used in manufacturing radiotherapy block shields. Alloys, not including cadmium, that melt at 95 degrees Celsius (203 degrees Fahrenheit) are also frequently used. Low-temperature melting alloys are mainly used for healthcare purposes in dedicated molding rooms to manufacture radiotherapy block shields. The molding rooms are frequently located in the healthcare facility that provides the radiotherapy treatment. The alloys are less frequently used in other healthcare applications (e.g., dentistry).
alloys	A mixture of metallic elements or compounds with other metallic or metalloid elements in varying proportions.
dental materials	Materials used in the production of dental bases, restorations, impressions, prostheses, etc.
allylestrenol	A synthetic steroid with progestational activity.
progestational compounds	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
allylestrenol product	A synthetic steroid with progestational activity.
steroid hormone	hormone characterized by the presence of a cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene ring, includes the estrogens, androgens, mineralocorticoids, progestogens, and glucocorticoids.
progestational agent	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
product containing allylestrenol	A synthetic steroid with progestational activity.
progestagen	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
prg - progesterone	The major progestational steroid that is secreted primarily by the CORPUS LUTEUM and the PLACENTA. Progesterone acts on the UTERUS, the MAMMARY GLANDS and the BRAIN. It is required in EMBRYO IMPLANTATION; PREGNANCY maintenance, and the development of mammary tissue for MILK production. Progesterone, converted from PREGNENOLONE, also serves as an intermediate in the biosynthesis of GONADAL STEROID HORMONES and adrenal CORTICOSTEROIDS.
allyloestrenol	A synthetic steroid with progestational activity.
progestogen	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
allyloestrenol product	A synthetic steroid with progestational activity.
progestational hormones	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
allylglycine	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase and an antagonist of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. It is used to induce convulsions in experimental animals.
gamma aminobutyric acid antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate GABA RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of endogenous GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID and GABA RECEPTOR AGONISTS.
almitrinum	A respiratory stimulant that enhances respiration by acting as an agonist of peripheral chemoreceptors located on the carotid bodies. The drug increases arterial oxygen tension while decreasing arterial carbon dioxide tension in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It may also prove useful in the treatment of nocturnal oxygen desaturation without impairing the quality of sleep.
respiratory system agents	Drugs used for their effects on the respiratory system.
almitrine	A respiratory stimulant that enhances respiration by acting as an agonist of peripheral chemoreceptors located on the carotid bodies. The drug increases arterial oxygen tension while decreasing arterial carbon dioxide tension in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It may also prove useful in the treatment of nocturnal oxygen desaturation without impairing the quality of sleep.
piperazine	saturated 6-membered ring structure with 2 nitrogen atoms.
respiratory drugs	Drugs used for their effects on the respiratory system.
respiratory system agent [tc]	Drugs used for their effects on the respiratory system.
cns stimulants	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
almitrine mesilate	The mesylate form of almitrine, a diphenylmethylpiperazine derivative and respiratory stimulant that can be used to improve oxygenation. Upon systemic administration, almitrine targets, binds to and activates the peripheral chemoreceptors located on the carotid bodies. This enhances respiration and increases arterial oxygen tension while decreasing arterial carbon dioxide tension.
almitrin	A respiratory stimulant that enhances respiration by acting as an agonist of peripheral chemoreceptors located on the carotid bodies. The drug increases arterial oxygen tension while decreasing arterial carbon dioxide tension in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It may also prove useful in the treatment of nocturnal oxygen desaturation without impairing the quality of sleep.
respiratory agents	Drugs used for their effects on the respiratory system.
baldness	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
product containing minoxidil	A potent direct-acting peripheral vasodilator (VASODILATOR AGENTS) that reduces peripheral resistance and produces a fall in BLOOD PRESSURE. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p371)
calvities	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
generalized atrichia	Loss of all hair on the entire body. [HPO:probinson]
hair loss	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
moynahan syndrome	A rare genetic epilepsy syndrome with characteristics of congenital alopecia, early-onset epilepsy, intellectual disability and speech delay. Large stature, delayed bone development and abnormal electroencephalogram have also been associated.
gapos	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
alopecia	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
johnson neuroectodermal syndrome	Johnson neuroectodermal syndrome has characteristics of alopecia, anosmia or hyposmia, conductive deafness with malformed ears and microtia and/or atresia of the external auditory canal and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. So far, less than 30 cases have been described in the literature. Other variable features include a congenital heart defect, facial asymmetry, intellectual deficit, cleft palate, choanal stenosis and an increased tendency for dental caries. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. The combination of developmental anomalies present in patients with this syndrome is suggestive of an embryological defect in the formation of the neuroectodermal derivatives of cephalic neural crest.
satoyoshi syndrome	A rare multisystemic autoimmune disease mainly characterized by intermittent painful muscle spasms, alopecia (totalis or universalis in most cases) and long-lasting diarrhea that could lead to malnutrition, growth retardation, and amenorrhea. Secondary bone deformities and various endocrine anomalies may also be associated. Antinuclear antibodies are reported in many cases.
parc syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis. A syndrome characterised by the association of congenital poikiloderma (P), generalised alopecia (A), retrognathism (R) and cleft palate (C). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1990.
jagell holmgren hofer syndrome	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by severe generalised lamellar icthyosis at birth with alopecia, eclabium, ectropion and intellectual disability. Although similar to Sjogren-Larsson syndrome, this syndrome lacks the presence of neurologic or macular changes. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
hair; loss	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
moloney syndrome	A very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with the association of choroidal atrophy (sometimes regional), together with other ectodermal dysplasia features including fine and sparse hair, absent or decreased lashes and eyebrows, and possibly mild visual loss and dysplastic/thick/grooved nails.
perniola krajewska carnevale syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome described in less than 20 families to date and has characteristics of total or partial alopecia associated with intellectual deficit. The syndrome can be associated with other anomalies such as seizures, sensorineural hearing loss, delayed psychomotor development, and/or hypertonia.
atrichosis	Absence de cheveux et de poil.
atrichia	Absence de cheveux et de poil.
hair loss disorder	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
telogen effluvium	A scalp hair loss condition characterized by excessive shedding of hair in the resting phase of growth, usually following a fever or major body stress.
congenital; alopecia	A congenital condition characterized by the absence of hair on the scalp or entire body. The lack of hair is rarely absolute and is usually accompanied by incompletely grown, lanugo-like hair. It affects males twice as much as females and a familial tendency is common.
non-neoplastic hair disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that affects the hair. Representative examples may include alopecia, male pattern baldness, hirsutism, and hair shaft disorders.
sézary disease	A form of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma manifested by generalized exfoliative ERYTHRODERMA; PRURITUS; peripheral lymphadenopathy, and abnormal hyperchromatic mononuclear (cerebriform) cells in the skin, LYMPH NODES, and peripheral blood (Sezary cells).
recurrent sezary syndrome	The reemergence of Sezary syndrome after a period of remission.
sezary's syndrome refractory	Sezary syndrome that is resistant to treatment.
falling hairs	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
thinning hair	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
loss; hair	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
hair losses	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
alopecia areata	Loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas.
hoyeraal hreidarsson syndrome	Dyskeratosis congenita inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. It is caused by mutations in the DKC1 gene.
alopecia unspecified	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
myositis ossificans progressiva	disease characterized by bony deposits or the ossification of muscle tissue.
hmi - hypomelanosis of ito	A large brown, blue, or gray hamartoma of dermal melanocytes, usually on the shoulder and upper arm that is most commonly found in Asian populations and in females. It is sometimes associated with sensory changes in the involved skin area, but very rarely becomes cancerous.
hair thinning	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
progeria	An abnormal congenital condition, associated with defects in the LAMIN TYPE A gene, which is characterized by premature aging in children, where all the changes of cell senescence occur. It is manifested by premature graying; hair loss; hearing loss (DEAFNESS); cataracts (CATARACT); ARTHRITIS; OSTEOPOROSIS; DIABETES MELLITUS; atrophy of subcutaneous fat; skeletal hypoplasia; elevated urinary HYALURONIC ACID; and accelerated ATHEROSCLEROSIS. Many affected individuals develop malignant tumors, especially SARCOMA.
porphyria cutanea tarda	An autosomal dominant or acquired porphyria due to a deficiency of UROPORPHYRINOGEN DECARBOXYLASE in the LIVER. It is characterized by photosensitivity and cutaneous lesions with little or no neurologic symptoms. Type I is the acquired form and is strongly associated with liver diseases and hepatic toxicities caused by alcohol or estrogenic steroids. Type II is the familial form.
oliver mcfarlane syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of growth retardation, alopecia, abnormally long eyelashes and retinitis pigmentosa. Moderate intellectual deficit was also present in the majority of cases. To date, 11 cases have been reported. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
alopecia nos	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
loss of hair	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
omenn syndrome	An autosomal recessive combined immunodeficiency syndrome caused by mutations in the RAG-1 and RAG-2 genes. It is characterized by the presence of alopecia, erythroderma, desquamation, lymphadenopathy, and chronic diarrhea.
obsolete alopecia areata	Loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas.
alopecia mucinosa	A disease of the pilosebaceous unit, presenting clinically as grouped follicular papules or plaques with associated hair loss. It is caused by mucinous infiltration of tissues, and usually involving the scalp, face, and neck. It may be primary (idiopathic) or secondary to mycosis fungoides or reticulosis.
total alopecia	Loss of all scalp hair. [HPO:probinson]
effluvium; anagen	An abnormal loss of anagen (growth phase) hairs. [PMID:28332382]
hair structure	A filament-like structure consisting of a shaft which projects to the surface of the SKIN from a root which is softer than the shaft and lodges in the cavity of a HAIR FOLLICLE. It is found on most surfaces of the body.
hairs	A filament-like structure consisting of a shaft which projects to the surface of the SKIN from a root which is softer than the shaft and lodges in the cavity of a HAIR FOLLICLE. It is found on most surfaces of the body.
progressive alopecia	Progressive loss of hair. [HPO:probinson]
alopecia disorders	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
patchy alopecia	Transient, non-scarring hair loss and preservation of the hair follicle located in in well-defined patches. []
thinning of hair	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
abnormal hair quantity	An abnormal amount of hair. [DDD:cmoss]
woodhouse sakati syndrome	Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome is a multisystemic disorder with characteristics of hypogonadism, alopecia, diabetes mellitus, intellectual deficit and extrapyramidal signs with choreoathetoid movements and dystonia. The onset is usually in adolescence. Additional manifestations may include sensorineural deafness, flattened T waves on ECG, seizures, sensory polyneuropathy, dysarthria, various craniofacial abnormalities (high forehead, flat occiput, triangular face, prominent nasal root, hypertelorism, and down-slanting palpebral fissures), scoliosis, hyperreflexia, and camptodactyly. Associated with mutations in the DCAF17 gene (2q31.1), encoding a nucleolar protein of unknown function. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
alopecia and intellectual disability syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome described in less than 20 families to date and has characteristics of total or partial alopecia associated with intellectual deficit. The syndrome can be associated with other anomalies such as seizures, sensorineural hearing loss, delayed psychomotor development, and/or hypertonia.
integument subdivision	Organ segment which is regional part of skin. Examples: skin of head, skin of limb.
hair follicles absent	Absence de cheveux et de poil.
follicular mucinosis	A disease of the pilosebaceous unit, presenting clinically as grouped follicular papules or plaques with associated hair loss. It is caused by mucinous infiltration of tissues, and usually involving the scalp, face, and neck. It may be primary (idiopathic) or secondary to mycosis fungoides or reticulosis.
hall berg rudolph syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia, microcephaly, and glaucoma, absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes, and a malformation of the nose. It has been described in two brothers.
hair disorder	Diseases affecting the orderly growth and persistence of hair.
alopecias	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
structure of hair	A filament-like structure consisting of a shaft which projects to the surface of the SKIN from a root which is softer than the shaft and lodges in the cavity of a HAIR FOLLICLE. It is found on most surfaces of the body.
nail plates	The thin, horny plates that cover the dorsal surfaces of the distal phalanges of the fingers and toes of primates.
falls hair	Absence of hair from areas where it is normally present.
alopecia universalis	Loss of all hair on the entire body. [HPO:probinson]
alopecia; circumscripta	Loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas.
hemifacial atrophies	A syndrome characterized by slowly progressive unilateral atrophy of facial subcutaneous fat, muscle tissue, skin, cartilage, and bone. The condition typically progresses over a period of 2-10 years and then stabilizes.
circumscribed alopecia	Loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas.
aa - alopecia areata	Loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas.
areata alopecia	Loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas.
human hair	A filament-like structure consisting of a shaft which projects to the surface of the SKIN from a root which is softer than the shaft and lodges in the cavity of a HAIR FOLLICLE. It is found on most surfaces of the body.
patchy baldness	Transient, non-scarring hair loss and preservation of the hair follicle located in in well-defined patches. []
alopecia circumscripta	Loss of scalp and body hair involving microscopically inflammatory patchy areas.
alopecia totalis	Loss of all scalp hair. [HPO:probinson]
universal alopecia	Loss of all hair on the entire body. [HPO:probinson]
hair follicle disorder	condition in which there is a deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the hair follicle, which is a tube-like invagination of the epidermis from which the hair shaft develops.
follicular mucinoses	A disease of the pilosebaceous unit, presenting clinically as grouped follicular papules or plaques with associated hair loss. It is caused by mucinous infiltration of tissues, and usually involving the scalp, face, and neck. It may be primary (idiopathic) or secondary to mycosis fungoides or reticulosis.
folliculotropic mycosis fungoides	A rare variant of mycosis fungoides, characterized by cerebriform lymphocytic infiltration of the hair follicles of the head and neck. Most cases show mucinous degeneration of the hair follicles, and are designated as mycosis fungoides-associated follicular mucinosis. Cases without mucinous degeneration have been reported as pilotropic mycosis fungoides. There is no difference in clinical presentation or outcome between mycosis fungoides-associated follicular mucinosis and pilotropic mycosis fungoides. In the recent WHO-EORTC classification, folliculotropic mycosis fungoides is the preferred term for all cases.
mucinoses	Mucoid states characterized by the elevated deposition and accumulation of mucin (mucopolysaccharides) in dermal tissue. The fibroblasts are responsible for the production of acid mucopolysaccharides (GLYCOSAMINOGLYCANS) in the ground substance of the connective tissue system. When fibroblasts produce abnormally large quantities of mucopolysaccharides as hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, or heparin, they accumulate in large amounts in the dermis.
alopecia mucinosis	A disease of the pilosebaceous unit, presenting clinically as grouped follicular papules or plaques with associated hair loss. It is caused by mucinous infiltration of tissues, and usually involving the scalp, face, and neck. It may be primary (idiopathic) or secondary to mycosis fungoides or reticulosis.
alouattas	A genus of the subfamily ALOUATTINAE, family ATELIDAE, inhabiting the forests of Central and South America. Howlers travel in groups and define their territories by howling accompanied by vigorously shaking and breaking branches.
family cebidae	American monkeys with prehensile tail, widely separated nostrils, nonopposable thumb; many forms are omnivorous and social in families.
howler monkeys	A genus of the subfamily ALOUATTINAE, family ATELIDAE, inhabiting the forests of Central and South America. Howlers travel in groups and define their territories by howling accompanied by vigorously shaking and breaking branches.
new world monkey	American monkeys with prehensile tail, widely separated nostrils, nonopposable thumb; many forms are omnivorous and social in families.
howler monkey	A genus of the subfamily ALOUATTINAE, family ATELIDAE, inhabiting the forests of Central and South America. Howlers travel in groups and define their territories by howling accompanied by vigorously shaking and breaking branches.
alouatta caraya	A species of the genus ALOUATTA, family ATELIDAE, inhabiting the forests of South America. Although sometimes known as black howler only adult males have black hair and adult females and juveniles are gold in color. Closely related A. pigra in Central America and A. nigerrima in the Amazon are also called black howlers.
interferon alfa product	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
interferon alfa	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
recombinant consensus interferon	An analogue of consensus interferon which contains an additional methionyl amino acid residue. Consensus interferon (also known as interferon alfacon-1, rCon-IFN, and CIFN) is a genetically engineered synthetic interferon created from the most common amino acid sequences from the naturally occurring alpha interferons. Alpha interferons bind to specific cell-surface receptors, resulting in the transcription and translation of genes whose protein products have antiviral, antiproliferative, anticancer, and immune-modulating effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2369" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2369" NCI Thesaurus)
huifn-alpha-le	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
interferon alfa natural	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
interferon alfa-containing product	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
alpha interferon	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
interferons	Proteins secreted by vertebrate cells in response to a wide variety of inducers. They confer resistance against many different viruses, inhibit proliferation of normal and malignant cells, impede multiplication of intracellular parasites, enhance macrophage and granulocyte phagocytosis, augment natural killer cell activity, and show several other immunomodulatory functions.
immunologic substance	Biologically active substances whose activities affect or play a role in the functioning of the immune system.
product containing interferon alfa	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
immune factors	Biologically active substances whose activities affect or play a role in the functioning of the immune system.
product containing interferon	Proteins secreted by vertebrate cells in response to a wide variety of inducers. They confer resistance against many different viruses, inhibit proliferation of normal and malignant cells, impede multiplication of intracellular parasites, enhance macrophage and granulocyte phagocytosis, augment natural killer cell activity, and show several other immunomodulatory functions.
ifn-α	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
interferon product	Proteins secreted by vertebrate cells in response to a wide variety of inducers. They confer resistance against many different viruses, inhibit proliferation of normal and malignant cells, impede multiplication of intracellular parasites, enhance macrophage and granulocyte phagocytosis, augment natural killer cell activity, and show several other immunomodulatory functions.
cytokine	Non-antibody proteins secreted by inflammatory leukocytes and some non-leukocytic cells, that act as intercellular mediators. They differ from classical hormones in that they are produced by a number of tissue or cell types rather than by specialized glands. They generally act locally in a paracrine or autocrine rather than endocrine manner.
interferon alpha	One of the type I interferons produced by peripheral blood leukocytes or lymphoblastoid cells. In addition to antiviral activity, it activates NATURAL KILLER CELLS and B-LYMPHOCYTES, and down-regulates VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR expression through PI-3 KINASE and MAPK KINASES signaling pathways.
immune factor	Biologically active substances whose activities affect or play a role in the functioning of the immune system.
alpha foetoprotein	The first alpha-globulins to appear in mammalian sera during FETAL DEVELOPMENT and the dominant serum proteins in early embryonic life.
alpha fetoprotein measurement	The determination of the amount of alpha-fetoprotein present in a sample.
alpha fetoprotein	The first alpha-globulins to appear in mammalian sera during FETAL DEVELOPMENT and the dominant serum proteins in early embryonic life.
biochemical tumor marker	Molecular products metabolized and secreted by neoplastic tissue and characterized biochemically in cells or BODY FLUIDS. They are indicators of tumor stage and grade as well as useful for monitoring responses to treatment and predicting recurrence. Many chemical groups are represented including HORMONES; ANTIGENS; amino and NUCLEIC ACIDS; ENZYMES; POLYAMINES; and specific CELL MEMBRANE PROTEINS and LIPIDS.
afp - alpha-fetoprotein	The first alpha-globulins to appear in mammalian sera during FETAL DEVELOPMENT and the dominant serum proteins in early embryonic life.
alpha fetoprotein testing	The determination of the amount of alpha-fetoprotein present in a sample.
alpha globulin	blood plasma or serum protein that is alkaline and has great electrophoretic mobility.
anaphylatoxin inactivator	A metallocarboxypeptidase that removes C-terminal basic amino acid from peptides and proteins, with preference shown for lysine over arginine. It is a plasma zinc enzyme that inactivates bradykinin and anaphylatoxins.
serum globulin	A group of proteins that are salt-soluble and form a large fraction of BLOOD PROTEINS. There are three types of globulins, ALPHA-GLOBULINS, BETA-GLOBULINS, and GAMMA-GLOBULINS, which are distinguished from one another by their degree of electrophoretic mobility.
alpha-globulin	blood plasma or serum protein that is alkaline and has great electrophoretic mobility.
carboxypeptidase n	A metallocarboxypeptidase that removes C-terminal basic amino acid from peptides and proteins, with preference shown for lysine over arginine. It is a plasma zinc enzyme that inactivates bradykinin and anaphylatoxins.
globulin	A group of proteins that are salt-soluble and form a large fraction of BLOOD PROTEINS. There are three types of globulins, ALPHA-GLOBULINS, BETA-GLOBULINS, and GAMMA-GLOBULINS, which are distinguished from one another by their degree of electrophoretic mobility.
alpha globulins	blood plasma or serum protein that is alkaline and has great electrophoretic mobility.
intercellular spaces	Interstitial space between cells, occupied by INTERSTITIAL FLUID as well as amorphous and fibrous substances. For organisms with a CELL WALL, the extracellular space includes everything outside of the CELL MEMBRANE including the PERIPLASM and the cell wall.
blood plasma	The residual portion of BLOOD that is left after removal of BLOOD CELLS by CENTRIFUGATION without prior BLOOD COAGULATION.
alpha particles	Positively charged particles composed of two protons and two NEUTRONS, i.e. equivalent to HELIUM nuclei, which are emitted during disintegration of heavy ISOTOPES. Alpha rays have very strong ionizing power, but weak penetrability.
elementary particles	Individual components of atoms, usually subatomic; subnuclear particles are usually detected only when the atomic nucleus decays and then only transiently, as most of them are unstable, often yielding pure energy without substance, i.e., radiation.
alpha-amanitine	A cyclic octapeptide with a thioether bridge between the cystine and tryptophan. It inhibits RNA POLYMERASE II. Poisoning may require LIVER TRANSPLANTATION.
alpha-amanitin	A cyclic octapeptide with a thioether bridge between the cystine and tryptophan. It inhibits RNA POLYMERASE II. Poisoning may require LIVER TRANSPLANTATION.
alpha amanitin	A cyclic octapeptide with a thioether bridge between the cystine and tryptophan. It inhibits RNA POLYMERASE II. Poisoning may require LIVER TRANSPLANTATION.
nucleic acid synthesis inhibitors	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
inhib nucleic acid syn	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
alpha amanitine	A cyclic octapeptide with a thioether bridge between the cystine and tryptophan. It inhibits RNA POLYMERASE II. Poisoning may require LIVER TRANSPLANTATION.
nucleic acid syn inhib	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
alpha amylase	Enzymes that catalyze the endohydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glycosidic linkages in STARCH; GLYCOGEN; and related POLYSACCHARIDES and OLIGOSACCHARIDES containing 3 or more 1,4-alpha-linked D-glucose units.
diastase	A group of amylolytic enzymes that cleave starch, glycogen, and related alpha-1,4-glucans. (Stedman, 25th ed) EC 3.2.1.-.
hydrolytic process	The process of cleaving a chemical compound by the addition of a molecule of water.
glycogenase	Enzymes that catalyze the endohydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glycosidic linkages in STARCH; GLYCOGEN; and related POLYSACCHARIDES and OLIGOSACCHARIDES containing 3 or more 1,4-alpha-linked D-glucose units.
carbohydrates metabolism	sum of chemical changes that occur within the tissues of an organism consisting of anabolism (biosynthesis) and catabolism of carbohydrates; the buildup and breakdown of carbohydrates for utilization by the organism.
alpha-amylase	Enzymes that catalyze the endohydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glycosidic linkages in STARCH; GLYCOGEN; and related POLYSACCHARIDES and OLIGOSACCHARIDES containing 3 or more 1,4-alpha-linked D-glucose units.
alpha-amylases	Enzymes that catalyze the endohydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glycosidic linkages in STARCH; GLYCOGEN; and related POLYSACCHARIDES and OLIGOSACCHARIDES containing 3 or more 1,4-alpha-linked D-glucose units.
alpha chlorhydrin	A chlorinated PROPANEDIOL with antifertility activity in males used as a chemosterilant in rodents.
chemosterilants	Compounds that cause reproductive sterility in organisms. They are sometimes used to control pest populations by sterilizing males within the population.
glycerol alpha monochlorohydrin	A chlorinated PROPANEDIOL with antifertility activity in males used as a chemosterilant in rodents.
alpha chlorohydrin	A chlorinated PROPANEDIOL with antifertility activity in males used as a chemosterilant in rodents.
alpha difluoromethyl ornithine	An inhibitor of ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE, the rate limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthetic pathway.
product containing eflornithine	An inhibitor of ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE, the rate limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthetic pathway.
ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor	Substances and drugs that inhibit or block the activity of ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE.
eflornithine	An inhibitor of ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE, the rate limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthetic pathway.
antineoplastic drugs	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
eflornithine product	An inhibitor of ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE, the rate limiting enzyme of the polyamine biosynthetic pathway.
downregulation of cell proliferation	Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation. [GOC:go_curators]
polyamine synthesis inhibition	Polyamine Synthesis Inhibition involves interference with, or restraint of, the activities of biologic molecules or complexes involved in the enzymatic formation of low molecular weight organic cations containing two or more amine groups (polyamines).
ornithine decarboxylase inhibitors	Substances and drugs that inhibit or block the activity of ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE.
antineopl agents	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
unspecified protozoal disease	Infections with unicellular organisms formerly members of the subkingdom Protozoa.
african trypanosomiasis	A disease endemic among people and animals in Central Africa. It is caused by various species of trypanosomes, particularly T. gambiense and T. rhodesiense. Its second host is the TSETSE FLY. Involvement of the central nervous system produces "African sleeping sickness." Nagana is a rapidly fatal trypanosomiasis of horses and other animals.
antineoplastic	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
trypanosomicidal agents	Agents destructive to the protozoal organisms belonging to the suborder TRYPANOSOMATINA.
trypanocidal drugs	Agents destructive to the protozoal organisms belonging to the suborder TRYPANOSOMATINA.
trypanocides	Agents destructive to the protozoal organisms belonging to the suborder TRYPANOSOMATINA.
melibiase	An enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of terminal, non-reducing alpha-D-galactose residues in alpha-galactosides including galactose oligosaccharides, galactomannans, and galactolipids.
galactosidase	A family of galactoside hydrolases that hydrolyze compounds with an O-galactosyl linkage. EC 3.2.1.-.
maltase glucoamylase	Enzymes that catalyze the exohydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glucosidic linkages with release of alpha-glucose. Deficiency of alpha-1,4-glucosidase may cause GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE TYPE II.
alpha glucosidase	Enzymes that catalyze the exohydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glucosidic linkages with release of alpha-glucose. Deficiency of alpha-1,4-glucosidase may cause GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE TYPE II.
dextrose	A primary source of energy for living organisms. It is naturally occurring and is found in fruits and other parts of plants in its free state. It is used therapeutically in fluid and nutrient replacement.
maltase	Enzymes that catalyze the exohydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glucosidic linkages with release of alpha-glucose. Deficiency of alpha-1,4-glucosidase may cause GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE TYPE II.
disaccharidase	Enzymes belonging to the class of GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES which break down DISACCHARIDES into simpler sugars, MONOSACCHARIDES.
alpha lactalbumin	The B protein subunit of the LACTOSE SYNTHASE complex.
lactalbumin alpha	The B protein subunit of the LACTOSE SYNTHASE complex.
lactalbumin	A major protein fraction of milk obtained from the WHEY.
alpha-msh	A 13-amino acid peptide derived from proteolytic cleavage of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE, the N-terminal segment of ACTH. ACTH (1-13) is amidated at the C-terminal to form ACTH (1-13)NH2 which in turn is acetylated to form alpha-MSH in the secretory granules. Alpha-MSH stimulates the synthesis and distribution of MELANIN in MELANOCYTES in mammals and MELANOPHORES in lower vertebrates.
afamelanotide	A synthetic peptide analogue of the naturally occurring alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (a-MSH) with potential photoprotective activity. Mimicking the action of a-MSH, afamelanotide stimulates melanocytes to increase the production and release of melanin. Increased melanocyte melanin may protect against ultraviolet radiation (UVR)-initiated cellular DNA damage, oxidation of membrane proteins, and alterations in intracellular signaling processes in epidermal cells. Endogenously, a-MSH is released by skin cells in response to UVR exposure, stimulating melanocytes to produce and release melanin.
alpha melanocyte stimulating hormone	A 13-amino acid peptide derived from proteolytic cleavage of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE, the N-terminal segment of ACTH. ACTH (1-13) is amidated at the C-terminal to form ACTH (1-13)NH2 which in turn is acetylated to form alpha-MSH in the secretory granules. Alpha-MSH stimulates the synthesis and distribution of MELANIN in MELANOCYTES in mammals and MELANOPHORES in lower vertebrates.
alpha melanotropin	A 13-amino acid peptide derived from proteolytic cleavage of ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE, the N-terminal segment of ACTH. ACTH (1-13) is amidated at the C-terminal to form ACTH (1-13)NH2 which in turn is acetylated to form alpha-MSH in the secretory granules. Alpha-MSH stimulates the synthesis and distribution of MELANIN in MELANOCYTES in mammals and MELANOPHORES in lower vertebrates.
endocrine gland secretion	Chemical substances having a specific regulatory effect on the activity of a certain organ or organs. The term was originally applied to substances secreted by various ENDOCRINE GLANDS and transported in the bloodstream to the target organs. It is sometimes extended to include those substances that are not produced by the endocrine glands but that have similar effects.
thalassemia; alpha	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
hemoglobin h disease	A form of alpha thalassemia that results from reduced protein production from three of the four alpha-globin genes. Clinically it is characterized by chronic hemolytic anemia.
thalassemia alpha	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
alpha thalassemia trait	A condition in which a person has reduced protein production from two of the four alpha-globin alleles.
alpha thalassaemia	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
alpha trait thalassemia	A condition in which a person has reduced protein production from two of the four alpha-globin alleles.
hemoglobin h dis	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
alpha thalassemia	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
haemolytic anaemia	A condition of inadequate circulating red blood cells (ANEMIA) or insufficient HEMOGLOBIN due to premature destruction of red blood cells (ERYTHROCYTES).
hemolytic anemia	A condition of inadequate circulating red blood cells (ANEMIA) or insufficient HEMOGLOBIN due to premature destruction of red blood cells (ERYTHROCYTES).
alpha-thalassemia trait	A condition in which a person has reduced protein production from two of the four alpha-globin alleles.
thalassaemia alpha	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
asymptomatic carrier of alpha-thalassemia	A condition in which a person has reduced protein production from one of the four alpha-globin alleles.
thalassemia disorder	A group of hereditary hemolytic anemias in which there is decreased synthesis of one or more hemoglobin polypeptide chains. There are several genetic types with clinical pictures ranging from barely detectable hematologic abnormality to severe and fatal anemia.
atrx syndrome	A rare, X-linked recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATRX gene. It is characterized by intellectual disability, developmental delays, hypotonia, widely spaced eyes, small nose, low-set ears, tented upper lip, skeletal abnormalities, and a mild form of alpha thalassemia.
red blood cell count	The number of RED BLOOD CELLS per unit volume in a sample of venous BLOOD.
rbc - red blood cell	Red blood cells. Mature erythrocytes are non-nucleated, biconcave disks containing HEMOGLOBIN whose function is to transport OXYGEN.
haematopoietic system	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
haemoglobin h disease	A form of alpha thalassemia that results from reduced protein production from three of the four alpha-globin genes. Clinically it is characterized by chronic hemolytic anemia.
cell red blood count	The number of RED BLOOD CELLS per unit volume in a sample of venous BLOOD.
red blood corpuscle	Red blood cells. Mature erythrocytes are non-nucleated, biconcave disks containing HEMOGLOBIN whose function is to transport OXYGEN.
erythrocytes	Red blood cells. Mature erythrocytes are non-nucleated, biconcave disks containing HEMOGLOBIN whose function is to transport OXYGEN.
alpha thalassaemia trait	A condition in which a person has reduced protein production from two of the four alpha-globin alleles.
alpha thalassaemia syndrome	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
alpha thalassemia syndrome	A disorder characterized by reduced synthesis of the alpha chains of hemoglobin. The severity of this condition can vary from mild anemia to death, depending on the number of genes deleted.
thalassaemia	A group of hereditary hemolytic anemias in which there is decreased synthesis of one or more hemoglobin polypeptide chains. There are several genetic types with clinical pictures ranging from barely detectable hematologic abnormality to severe and fatal anemia.
hemoglobin alpha chain	Hemoglobin subunit alpha (142 aa, ~15 kDa) is encoded by both the human HBA1 and human HBA2 genes. This protein plays a role in the distribution of oxygen from the lungs to other organs and tissues.
alpha-tubulin	A family of globular proteins that form dimers with beta tubulins. The alpha-beta tubulin dimers polymerize in a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-dependent fashion to form microtubules.
tubulin	A microtubule subunit protein found in large quantities in mammalian brain. It has also been isolated from SPERM FLAGELLUM; CILIA; and other sources. Structurally, the protein is a dimer with a molecular weight of approximately 120,000 and a sedimentation coefficient of 5.8S. It binds to COLCHICINE; VINCRISTINE; and VINBLASTINE.
cytokinesis involved in cell cycle	The division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its partitioning into two daughter cells. [GOC:mtg_cell_cycle]
alpha tubulin	A family of globular proteins that form dimers with beta tubulins. The alpha-beta tubulin dimers polymerize in a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-dependent fashion to form microtubules.
structural gene	genes which code for protein products; compare with GENETIC REGULATORY ELEMENT and REGULATORY GENE.
tubulin alpha	A family of globular proteins that form dimers with beta tubulins. The alpha-beta tubulin dimers polymerize in a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-dependent fashion to form microtubules.
microtubules	Slender, cylindrical filaments found in the cytoskeleton of plant and animal cells. They are composed of the protein TUBULIN and are influenced by TUBULIN MODULATORS.
contraction muscular	A process leading to shortening and/or development of tension in muscle tissue. Muscle contraction occurs by a sliding filament mechanism whereby actin filaments slide inward among the myosin filaments.
cell movements	The movement of cells from one location to another. Distinguish from CYTOKINESIS which is the process of dividing the CYTOPLASM of a cell.
alphaprodine	An opioid analgesic chemically related to and with an action resembling that of MEPERIDINE, but more rapid in onset and of shorter duration. It has been used in obstetrics, as pre-operative medication, for minor surgical procedures, and for dental procedures. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1067)
narcotics and opioids	Agents that induce NARCOSIS. Narcotics include agents that cause somnolence or induced sleep (STUPOR); natural or synthetic derivatives of OPIUM or MORPHINE or any substance that has such effects. They are potent inducers of ANALGESIA and OPIOID-RELATED DISORDERS.
piperidine	saturated 6-membered ring structure with one nitrogen atom.
narcotic drug	Agents that induce NARCOSIS. Narcotics include agents that cause somnolence or induced sleep (STUPOR); natural or synthetic derivatives of OPIUM or MORPHINE or any substance that has such effects. They are potent inducers of ANALGESIA and OPIOID-RELATED DISORDERS.
algestone	A synthetic progestational dihydroxy derivative of PROGESTERONE. Its acetonide possesses anti-inflammatory properties.
hormonal oral contraceptive agent	Oral contraceptives which owe their effectiveness to hormonal preparations.
hormonal oral contraceptive agents	Oral contraceptives which owe their effectiveness to hormonal preparations.
alphasone	A synthetic progestational dihydroxy derivative of PROGESTERONE. Its acetonide possesses anti-inflammatory properties.
progestational agents	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
progestogens	class of drugs which mimic progesterone by promoting gestation.
alphavirus	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
chikungunya virus	A species of ALPHAVIRUS causing an acute dengue-like fever.
group a arbovirus	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
barmah forest virus	Any viral organism that can be assigned to the species Barmah Forest virus.
arboviruses	Arthropod-borne viruses. A non-taxonomic designation for viruses that can replicate in both vertebrate hosts and arthropod vectors. Included are some members of the following families: ARENAVIRIDAE; BUNYAVIRIDAE; REOVIRIDAE; TOGAVIRIDAE; and FLAVIVIRIDAE. (From Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, 2nd ed)
alphaviruses	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
togaviridae	family of RNA viruses, mainly arboviruses, consisting of two genera: Alphavirus (group A arboviruses), and Rubivirus; virions are spherical, 60-70 nm in diameter, with a lipoprotein envelope tightly applied to the icosahedral nucleocapsid.
alpha viruses	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
alpha virus	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
arbovirus group a virus	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
eastern equine encephalitis virus	A species of ALPHAVIRUS causing encephalomyelitis in Equidae and humans. The virus ranges along the Atlantic seaboard of the United States and Canada and as far south as the Caribbean, Mexico, and parts of Central and South America. Infections in horses show a mortality of up to 90 percent and in humans as high as 80 percent in epidemics.
venezuelan equine encephalitis virus	A species of ALPHAVIRUS that is the etiologic agent of encephalomyelitis in humans and equines. It is seen most commonly in parts of Central and South America.
arbovirus group c	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
semliki forest virus	isolated from mosquitoes in the Semliki Forest, Uganda; pathogenic for laboratory animals and man.
alphaviridae	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
onyong-nyong virus	A species of ALPHAVIRUS causing a measles-like acute febrile rash illness. It is closely related to the Chikungunya virus and Igbo Ora viruses.
togavirus	family of RNA viruses, mainly arboviruses, consisting of two genera: Alphavirus (group A arboviruses), and Rubivirus; virions are spherical, 60-70 nm in diameter, with a lipoprotein envelope tightly applied to the icosahedral nucleocapsid.
arbovirus group a	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
infect alphavirus	Virus diseases caused by members of the ALPHAVIRUS genus of the family TOGAVIRIDAE.
eee virus	A species of ALPHAVIRUS causing encephalomyelitis in Equidae and humans. The virus ranges along the Atlantic seaboard of the United States and Canada and as far south as the Caribbean, Mexico, and parts of Central and South America. Infections in horses show a mortality of up to 90 percent and in humans as high as 80 percent in epidemics.
western equine encephalomyelitis virus	A species of ALPHAVIRUS that is the etiologic agent of encephalomyelitis in humans and equines in the United States, southern Canada, and parts of South America.
genus: arbovirus group a	genus of Togaviridae, also known as Group A arboviruses, serologically related to each other but not to other Togaviridae; viruses are transmitted by mosquitoes.
sindbis virus	The type species of ALPHAVIRUS normally transmitted to birds by CULEX mosquitoes in Egypt, South Africa, India, Malaya, the Philippines, and Australia. It may be associated with fever in humans. Serotypes (differing by less than 17% in nucleotide sequence) include Babanki, Kyzylagach, and Ockelbo viruses.
sagiyama virus	Strain of Ross River Virus.
arbovirus	Arthropod-borne viruses. A non-taxonomic designation for viruses that can replicate in both vertebrate hosts and arthropod vectors. Included are some members of the following families: ARENAVIRIDAE; BUNYAVIRIDAE; REOVIRIDAE; TOGAVIRIDAE; and FLAVIVIRIDAE. (From Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, 2nd ed)
equine enceph venezuelan	A form of arboviral encephalitis endemic to Central America and the northern latitudes of South America. The causative organism (ENCEPHALITIS VIRUS, VENEZUELAN EQUINE) is transmitted to humans and horses via the bite of several mosquito species. Human viral infection may be asymptomatic or remain restricted to a mild influenza-like illness. Encephalitis, usually not severe, occurs in a small percentage of cases and may rarely feature SEIZURES and COMA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1996, Ch26, pp9-10)
alphavirus infections	Virus diseases caused by members of the ALPHAVIRUS genus of the family TOGAVIRIDAE.
alphavirus disease	Virus diseases caused by members of the ALPHAVIRUS genus of the family TOGAVIRIDAE.
alprazolam	A triazolobenzodiazepine compound with antianxiety and sedative-hypnotic actions, that is efficacious in the treatment of PANIC DISORDERS, with or without AGORAPHOBIA, and in generalized ANXIETY DISORDERS. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p238)
ketoconazole	Broad spectrum antifungal agent used for long periods at high doses, especially in immunosuppressed patients.
delavirdine	potent, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor with activity specific for HIV1.
indinavir	A potent and specific HIV protease inhibitor that appears to have good oral bioavailability.
delavirdine mesylate	A mesylate salt form of delavirdine, a synthetic, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor. In combination with other anti-retroviral drugs, this agent has been shown to reduce HIV viral load and increase CD4 leukocyte counts in patients. As an inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 system, delavirdine may result in increased serum levels of co-administered protease inhibitors metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system.
indinavir anhydrous	An anhydrous formulation of indinavir, a synthetic hydroxyaminopentane amide agent that selectively inhibits the protease of both human immunodeficiency virus 1 and 2. The incorporation of a basic amine into the hydroxyethylene backbone improves its aqueous solubility and its oral bioavailability.
alprazolan	A triazolobenzodiazepine compound with antianxiety and sedative-hypnotic actions, that is efficacious in the treatment of PANIC DISORDERS, with or without AGORAPHOBIA, and in generalized ANXIETY DISORDERS. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p238)
anxiolytic agent	Agents that alleviate ANXIETY, tension, and ANXIETY DISORDERS, promote sedation, and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions. ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS are commonly used in the symptomatic treatment of anxiety but are not included here.
xanax	a kind of anxiety treatment drug
hypnotic and sedative	Drugs used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety.
alprazolam - chemical	A triazolobenzodiazepine compound with antianxiety and sedative-hypnotic actions, that is efficacious in the treatment of PANIC DISORDERS, with or without AGORAPHOBIA, and in generalized ANXIETY DISORDERS. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p238)
gamma aminobutyric acid modulators	Substances that do not act as agonists or antagonists but do affect the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID receptor-ionophore complex. GABA-A receptors (RECEPTORS, GABA-A) appear to have at least three allosteric sites at which modulators act: a site at which BENZODIAZEPINES act by increasing the opening frequency of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID-activated chloride channels; a site at which BARBITURATES act to prolong the duration of channel opening; and a site at which some steroids may act. GENERAL ANESTHETICS probably act at least partly by potentiating GABAergic responses, but they are not included here.
benzodiazepine	bicyclic structure consisting of fused benzene and diazepine rings; many compounds with this structure have psychotropic and neurotropic properties, and are used as sedatives, anticonvulsants, muscle relaxants, and in related applications.
antianxiety drugs	Agents that alleviate ANXIETY, tension, and ANXIETY DISORDERS, promote sedation, and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions. ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS are commonly used in the symptomatic treatment of anxiety but are not included here.
tranquilizer	Drugs used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety.
anxiolytics	Agents that alleviate ANXIETY, tension, and ANXIETY DISORDERS, promote sedation, and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions. ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS are commonly used in the symptomatic treatment of anxiety but are not included here.
alprazolam measurement	The determination of the amount of alprazolam present in a sample.
alprazolam product	A triazolobenzodiazepine compound with antianxiety and sedative-hypnotic actions, that is efficacious in the treatment of PANIC DISORDERS, with or without AGORAPHOBIA, and in generalized ANXIETY DISORDERS. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p238)
benzodiazepine cpds	A group of two-ring heterocyclic compounds consisting of a benzene ring fused to a diazepine ring.
benzodiazepines	A group of two-ring heterocyclic compounds consisting of a benzene ring fused to a diazepine ring.
affecting cns drugs	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
itraconazole	A triazole antifungal agent that inhibits cytochrome P-450-dependent enzymes required for ERGOSTEROL synthesis.
renal excretion	The discharge of substances from the blood supply via the URINARY TRACT.
sedative and hypnotic	Drugs used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety.
anxiolytic agents	Agents that alleviate ANXIETY, tension, and ANXIETY DISORDERS, promote sedation, and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions. ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS are commonly used in the symptomatic treatment of anxiety but are not included here.
gaba modulators	Substances that do not act as agonists or antagonists but do affect the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID receptor-ionophore complex. GABA-A receptors (RECEPTORS, GABA-A) appear to have at least three allosteric sites at which modulators act: a site at which BENZODIAZEPINES act by increasing the opening frequency of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID-activated chloride channels; a site at which BARBITURATES act to prolong the duration of channel opening; and a site at which some steroids may act. GENERAL ANESTHETICS probably act at least partly by potentiating GABAergic responses, but they are not included here.
hypnotics and sedatives	Drugs used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety.
anti-anxiety agents	Agents that alleviate ANXIETY, tension, and ANXIETY DISORDERS, promote sedation, and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions. ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS are commonly used in the symptomatic treatment of anxiety but are not included here.
tranquilizers antianxiety	Agents that alleviate ANXIETY, tension, and ANXIETY DISORDERS, promote sedation, and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions. ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS are commonly used in the symptomatic treatment of anxiety but are not included here.
sympatholytic drug	Drugs that inhibit the actions of the sympathetic nervous system by any mechanism. The most common of these are the ADRENERGIC ANTAGONISTS and drugs that deplete norepinephrine or reduce the release of transmitters from adrenergic postganglionic terminals (see ADRENERGIC AGENTS). Drugs that act in the central nervous system to reduce sympathetic activity (e.g., centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists, see ADRENERGIC ALPHA-AGONISTS) are included here.
sympathetic block agents	Drugs that inhibit the actions of the sympathetic nervous system by any mechanism. The most common of these are the ADRENERGIC ANTAGONISTS and drugs that deplete norepinephrine or reduce the release of transmitters from adrenergic postganglionic terminals (see ADRENERGIC AGENTS). Drugs that act in the central nervous system to reduce sympathetic activity (e.g., centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists, see ADRENERGIC ALPHA-AGONISTS) are included here.
sympatholytic drugs	Drugs that inhibit the actions of the sympathetic nervous system by any mechanism. The most common of these are the ADRENERGIC ANTAGONISTS and drugs that deplete norepinephrine or reduce the release of transmitters from adrenergic postganglionic terminals (see ADRENERGIC AGENTS). Drugs that act in the central nervous system to reduce sympathetic activity (e.g., centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists, see ADRENERGIC ALPHA-AGONISTS) are included here.
arrhythmia	any variation from the normal rhythm or rate of the heart beat.
aminopropanols	AMINO ALCOHOLS containing the propanolamine (NH2CH2CHOHCH2) group and its derivatives.
sympatholytic agent	Drugs that inhibit the actions of the sympathetic nervous system by any mechanism. The most common of these are the ADRENERGIC ANTAGONISTS and drugs that deplete norepinephrine or reduce the release of transmitters from adrenergic postganglionic terminals (see ADRENERGIC AGENTS). Drugs that act in the central nervous system to reduce sympathetic activity (e.g., centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists, see ADRENERGIC ALPHA-AGONISTS) are included here.
anti-hypertensive agents	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
adrenergic neurone blocker product	Drugs that inhibit the actions of the sympathetic nervous system by any mechanism. The most common of these are the ADRENERGIC ANTAGONISTS and drugs that deplete norepinephrine or reduce the release of transmitters from adrenergic postganglionic terminals (see ADRENERGIC AGENTS). Drugs that act in the central nervous system to reduce sympathetic activity (e.g., centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists, see ADRENERGIC ALPHA-AGONISTS) are included here.
aprenololo	One of the ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS used as an antihypertensive, anti-anginal, and anti-arrhythmic agent.
sympatholytic	Drugs that inhibit the actions of the sympathetic nervous system by any mechanism. The most common of these are the ADRENERGIC ANTAGONISTS and drugs that deplete norepinephrine or reduce the release of transmitters from adrenergic postganglionic terminals (see ADRENERGIC AGENTS). Drugs that act in the central nervous system to reduce sympathetic activity (e.g., centrally acting alpha-2 adrenergic agonists, see ADRENERGIC ALPHA-AGONISTS) are included here.
urologic agents	Drugs used in the treatment of urological conditions and diseases such as URINARY INCONTINENCE and URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS.
prostaglandins	A group of compounds derived from unsaturated 20-carbon fatty acids, primarily arachidonic acid, via the cyclooxygenase pathway. They are extremely potent mediators of a diverse group of physiological processes.
prostaglandin preparation	A group of compounds derived from unsaturated 20-carbon fatty acids, primarily arachidonic acid, via the cyclooxygenase pathway. They are extremely potent mediators of a diverse group of physiological processes.
multiple myeloma myelomatosis	A malignancy of mature PLASMA CELLS engaging in monoclonal immunoglobulin production. It is characterized by hyperglobulinemia, excess Bence-Jones proteins (free monoclonal IMMUNOGLOBULIN LIGHT CHAINS) in the urine, skeletal destruction, bone pain, and fractures. Other features include ANEMIA; HYPERCALCEMIA; and RENAL INSUFFICIENCY.
alprostadil [erectile dysfunction]	A potent vasodilator agent that increases peripheral blood flow.
vasculogenic impotence	Inability to achieve and maintain an erection (ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION) due to defects in the arterial blood flow to the PENIS, defect in venous occlusive function allowing blood drainage (leakage) from the erectile tissue (corpus cavernosum penis), or both.
platelet aggregation inhibitors	Drugs or agents which antagonize or impair any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation, whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense-granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin-thromboxane system.
epic-smd	A component of the EPIC designed to assess the use of erectile aids among patients treated for prostate cancer.
substances vasodilator	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
alseroxylon	An alkaloidal extract from RAUWOLFIA.
rauwolfia alkaloid	alkaloids derived from plants of the genus Rauwolfia; have been used in the treatment of hypertension and psychoses.
alternaria	A mitosporic Loculoascomycetes fungal genus including several plant pathogens and at least one species which produces a highly phytotoxic antibiotic. Its teleomorph is Lewia.
sdtm-microorg	Microorganisms, bacteria, fungi and other organisms.
alternative rna splicings	A process whereby multiple RNA transcripts are generated from a single gene. Alternative splicing involves the splicing together of other possible sets of EXONS during the processing of some, but not all, transcripts of the gene. Thus a particular exon may be connected to any one of several alternative exons to form a mature RNA. The alternative forms of mature MESSENGER RNA produce PROTEIN ISOFORMS in which one part of the isoforms is common while the other parts are different.
tissue-specific splicing	Alternate splicing which is specific and typical for a given tissue.
alternate splicings	A process whereby multiple RNA transcripts are generated from a single gene. Alternative splicing involves the splicing together of other possible sets of EXONS during the processing of some, but not all, transcripts of the gene. Thus a particular exon may be connected to any one of several alternative exons to form a mature RNA. The alternative forms of mature MESSENGER RNA produce PROTEIN ISOFORMS in which one part of the isoforms is common while the other parts are different.
t-star	This gene is involved in exon exclusion.
alternative splicing	A process whereby multiple RNA transcripts are generated from a single gene. Alternative splicing involves the splicing together of other possible sets of EXONS during the processing of some, but not all, transcripts of the gene. Thus a particular exon may be connected to any one of several alternative exons to form a mature RNA. The alternative forms of mature MESSENGER RNA produce PROTEIN ISOFORMS in which one part of the isoforms is common while the other parts are different.
abalon	Apoptotic BCL2L1-antisense long non-coding RNA (~2 kb) is encoded by the human ABALON gene. This non-coding RNA plays a role in the regulation of BCL2L1-mediated apoptosis.
alternative medicine	diagnostic or therapeutic technique which is presently outside the field of conventional medical practice; for use as a 'tag' term index at 'T' emphasis level.
art therapy	The use of art as an adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurological, mental, or behavioral disorders.
ther dance	The use of dancing for therapeutic purposes.
alternative medicines	diagnostic or therapeutic technique which is presently outside the field of conventional medical practice; for use as a 'tag' term index at 'T' emphasis level.
naturopathy	A drugless system of therapy, making use of physical forces such as air, light, water, heat, massage. Treatments are often diet- and nutrition-oriented with attention given to the patient's personal history and lifestyle. (From Cassileth, Alternative Medicine Handbook, 1998, p329)
reflexology procedure	The application of pressure to specific zones on the ears, hands, and feet in order to reduce stress and promote healing in corresponding glands, organs, parts, and systems of the body that are believed to be connected through energy channels.
med alternative	diagnostic or therapeutic technique which is presently outside the field of conventional medical practice; for use as a 'tag' term index at 'T' emphasis level.
therapeutic touch	Placing of the hands of the healer upon the person to be cured with the intent of spiritual energetic healing.
aromatherapy	The use of fragrances and essences from plants to affect or alter a person's mood or behavior and to facilitate physical, mental, and emotional well-being. The chemicals comprising essential oils in plants has a host of therapeutic properties and has been used historically in Africa, Asia, and India. Its greatest application is in the field of alternative medicine. (From Random House Unabridged Dictionary, 2d ed; from Dr. Atiba Vheir, Dove Center, Washington, D.C.)
humor facilitation	Facilitating the patient to perceive, appreciate, and express what is funny, amusing, or ludicrous in order to establish relationships, relieve tension, release anger, facilitate learning, or cope with painful feelings
reiki	An alternative medical practice. The practitioners of reiki believe that health and disease are a matter of the life force being disrupted. Reiki healers claim to channel reiki into "diseased" individuals for "rebalancing." (from Skeptic's Dictionary)
faith healing	The use of faith and spirit to cure disease.
alternative med	diagnostic or therapeutic technique which is presently outside the field of conventional medical practice; for use as a 'tag' term index at 'T' emphasis level.
ginseng extract	The aromatic root of the perennial herb Panax quinquefolius, native to eastern North America. American ginseng, used in Chinese traditional medicine and available as a nutritional supplement, is classified as an adaptogenic herb with multiple effects, many of which are regulatory in nature. It contains a complex mixture of saponin glycosides, also known as ginsenosides or panaxosides. Although the mechanism of action is unclear, this agent is reported to enhance the immune system and reduce fatigue.
extract ginseng	The aromatic root of the perennial herb Panax quinquefolius, native to eastern North America. American ginseng, used in Chinese traditional medicine and available as a nutritional supplement, is classified as an adaptogenic herb with multiple effects, many of which are regulatory in nature. It contains a complex mixture of saponin glycosides, also known as ginsenosides or panaxosides. Although the mechanism of action is unclear, this agent is reported to enhance the immune system and reduce fatigue.
panax quinquifolius	The aromatic root of the perennial herb Panax quinquefolius, native to eastern North America. American ginseng, used in Chinese traditional medicine and available as a nutritional supplement, is classified as an adaptogenic herb with multiple effects, many of which are regulatory in nature. It contains a complex mixture of saponin glycosides, also known as ginsenosides or panaxosides. Although the mechanism of action is unclear, this agent is reported to enhance the immune system and reduce fatigue.
american ginseng	The aromatic root of the perennial herb Panax quinquefolius, native to eastern North America. American ginseng, used in Chinese traditional medicine and available as a nutritional supplement, is classified as an adaptogenic herb with multiple effects, many of which are regulatory in nature. It contains a complex mixture of saponin glycosides, also known as ginsenosides or panaxosides. Although the mechanism of action is unclear, this agent is reported to enhance the immune system and reduce fatigue.
herbal medicine	Läran om läkemedel hämtade från växtriket.
complementary therapies	Therapeutic practices which are not currently considered an integral part of conventional allopathic medical practice. They may lack biomedical explanations but as they become better researched some (PHYSICAL THERAPY MODALITIES; DIET; ACUPUNCTURE) become widely accepted whereas others (humors, radium therapy) quietly fade away, yet are important historical footnotes. Therapies are termed as Complementary when used in addition to conventional treatments and as Alternative when used instead of conventional treatment.
altitudes	A vertical distance measured from a known level on the surface of a planet or other celestial body.
altitude effects high	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
mountain sickness	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
altitude	A vertical distance measured from a known level on the surface of a planet or other celestial body.
high altitude; effects	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
high altitude effects	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
dysbarism	Injury following pressure changes; includes injury to the eustachian tube, ear drum, lung and stomach.
hypoxemia	A finding indicating decreased oxygen levels in the blood.
alpine sickness	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
[d]hypoxaemia	A finding indicating decreased oxygen levels in the blood.
high altitute sickness	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
condition	A definite pathologic process with a characteristic set of signs and symptoms. It may affect the whole body or any of its parts, and its etiology, pathology, and prognosis may be known or unknown.
altitude sickness	Multiple symptoms associated with reduced oxygen at high ALTITUDE.
altruism	Belief or practice of selfless concern for others.
defense mechanisms	Unconscious process used by an individual or a group of individuals in order to cope with impulses, feelings or ideas which are not acceptable at their conscious level; various types include reaction formation, projection and self reversal.
defense mechanisms psychological	Unconscious process used by an individual or a group of individuals in order to cope with impulses, feelings or ideas which are not acceptable at their conscious level; various types include reaction formation, projection and self reversal.
alu repetitive sequence	Alu-sekvensfamiljen (så benämnd efter restriktionsenzymet Alu 1) är ett höggradigt konserverat och det mest upprepade spridda repetitionselementet i människan (mer än en miljon kopior). Den härrör frå n 7SL-RNA-komponenten i den signaligenkännande partikeln och innehåller en RNA-polymeras III-promotor. Transposition av detta element i genernas kodnings- eller regulatorregioner ligger bakom många är ftliga sjukdomar.
aluminum	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
aluminium	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
aluminum product	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
aluminio	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
aluminum element	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
aluminum sulfate	An aluminum salt of sulfuric acid, an industrial chemical used in many industrial applications. In purification of drinking water, aluminum sulfate acts as a flocculating agent which causes impurities to coagulate and sediment, so that they are easily removed by filtration. It is also used as a mordant in textile dyeing and paper manufacture.
metallic aluminum	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
aluminium chloride	A compound with the chemical formula AlCl3; the anhydrous salt is used as a catalyst in organic chemical synthesis, and hydrated salts are used topically as antiperspirants, and for the management of HYPERHYDROSIS.
assay of aluminum	A measurement of aluminum in a biological specimen.
alum adjuvant	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
aluminio hidróxido	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
aluminium sulphate	An aluminum salt of sulfuric acid, an industrial chemical used in many industrial applications. In purification of drinking water, aluminum sulfate acts as a flocculating agent which causes impurities to coagulate and sediment, so that they are easily removed by filtration. It is also used as a mordant in textile dyeing and paper manufacture.
antacids products	Substances that counteract or neutralize acidity of the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT.
antacids	Substances that counteract or neutralize acidity of the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT.
antacid preparation	Substances that counteract or neutralize acidity of the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT.
al - aluminium	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
aluminium atom	A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
antacid	Substances that counteract or neutralize acidity of the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT.
aluminum hydroxide product	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
magnesium	A metallic element that has the atomic symbol Mg, atomic number 12, and atomic weight 24.31. It is important for the activity of many enzymes, especially those involved in OXIDATIVE PHOSPHORYLATION.
antacid agent	Substances that counteract or neutralize acidity of the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT.
aluminum hydroxide [nutritional use]	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
alumina hydrate	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
hydrated alumina	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
common duodenal ulcer	A PEPTIC ULCER located in the DUODENUM.
product containing aluminium hydroxide	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
reflux esophagitis	INFLAMMATION of the ESOPHAGUS that is caused by the reflux of GASTRIC JUICE with contents of the STOMACH and DUODENUM.
heartburn	Substernal pain or burning sensation, usually associated with regurgitation of gastric juice into the esophagus.
aluminium hydroxide product	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
gastric ulcer	Ulceration of the GASTRIC MUCOSA due to contact with GASTRIC JUICE. It is often associated with HELICOBACTER PYLORI infection or consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS).
prescription drugs	Drugs that cannot be sold legally without a prescription.
aluminium hydroxide - chemical	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
aluminium hydroxide [antacid]	A compound with many biomedical applications: as a gastric antacid, an antiperspirant, in dentifrices, as an emulsifier, as an adjuvant in bacterins and vaccines, in water purification, etc.
aluminum oxide	An oxide of aluminum, occurring in nature as various minerals such as bauxite, corundum, etc. It is used as an adsorbent, desiccating agent, and catalyst, and in the manufacture of dental cements and refractories.
aluminum compounds	Inorganic compounds that contain aluminum as an integral part of the molecule.
aluminum lake	An oxide of aluminum, occurring in nature as various minerals such as bauxite, corundum, etc. It is used as an adsorbent, desiccating agent, and catalyst, and in the manufacture of dental cements and refractories.
drugs gastrointestinal	Drugs used for their effects on the gastrointestinal system, as to control gastric acidity, regulate gastrointestinal motility and water flow, and improve digestion.
gastrointestinal drug	Drugs used for their effects on the gastrointestinal system, as to control gastric acidity, regulate gastrointestinal motility and water flow, and improve digestion.
aluminium compound	Inorganic compounds that contain aluminum as an integral part of the molecule.
aluminum silicates	Any of the numerous types of clay which contain varying proportions of Al2O3 and SiO2. They are made synthetically by heating aluminum fluoride at 1000-2000 degrees C with silica and water vapor. (From Hawley's Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 11th ed)
hydrated sodium calcium aluminosilicate	A naturally occurring, highly mineralized phyllosilicate clay used as a nutritional supplement with mycotoxin binding and protective activities. Upon ingestion prior to each meal, hydrated sodium calcium aluminosilicate is not absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract but rather binds certain food contaminants, including aflatoxin (AF) and fumonisin B1 (FB1), thereby reducing the bioavailability of these substances. Dietary exposure of AF and FB1 has been associated with an increased risk of certain cancers.
alveolar process atrophies	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
osteopathy nos	Diseases of BONES.
periodontal resorption	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
diseases of the jaws	Diseases involving the JAW.
alveolar resorption	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
cartilagenous	A non-vascular form of connective tissue composed of CHONDROCYTES embedded in a matrix that includes CHONDROITIN SULFATE and various types of FIBRILLAR COLLAGEN. There are three major types: HYALINE CARTILAGE; FIBROCARTILAGE; and ELASTIC CARTILAGE.
atrophy; alveolar process	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
alveolar resorptions	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
alveolar ridge	The thickened bony structures in the mandible and maxilla that contain the sockets of the teeth.
alveolar bone atrophies	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
bone disorder	Diseases of BONES.
alveolar bone loss	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
unspecified disease of the jaws	Diseases involving the JAW.
abnormality of the alveolar ridges	Any abnormality of the alveolar ridges (on the upper or lower jaws). The alveolar ridges contain the sockets (alveoli) of the teeth. [HPO:probinson]
structure of alveolar process	The thickest and spongiest part of the maxilla and mandible hollowed out into deep cavities for the teeth.
anatomies mouth	The oval-shaped oral cavity located at the apex of the digestive tract and consisting of two parts: the vestibule and the oral cavity proper.
periodontal bone loss	Resorption or wasting of the tooth-supporting bone (ALVEOLAR PROCESS) in the MAXILLA or MANDIBLE.
alveolar process	The thickest and spongiest part of the maxilla and mandible hollowed out into deep cavities for the teeth.
alveolar ridge of mandible	Zone of body of mandible, each instance of which has as it parts mandibular sockets for teeth in some lower jaw.
alveolar processes	The thickest and spongiest part of the maxilla and mandible hollowed out into deep cavities for the teeth.
alveolus dentalis	Cavidad del proceso alveolar del maxilar (MAXILARES) y la MANDÍBULA, donde se fija cada diente y donde se une mediante el ligamento peridontal.
facial bone	The facial skeleton, consisting of bones situated between the cranial base and the mandibular region. While some consider the facial bones to comprise the hyoid (HYOID BONE), palatine (HARD PALATE), and zygomatic (ZYGOMA) bones, MANDIBLE, and MAXILLA, others include also the lacrimal and nasal bones, inferior nasal concha, and vomer but exclude the hyoid bone. (Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992, p113)
alveolar process of mandible	Zone of body of mandible, each instance of which has as it parts mandibular sockets for teeth in some lower jaw.
papillon lefevre disease	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
alveolar ridge augmentations	Preprosthetic surgery involving rib, cartilage, or iliac crest bone grafts, usually autologous, or synthetic implants for rebuilding the alveolar ridge.
alveolar ridge augmentation	Preprosthetic surgery involving rib, cartilage, or iliac crest bone grafts, usually autologous, or synthetic implants for rebuilding the alveolar ridge.
cavitas oris	The oval-shaped oral cavity located at the apex of the digestive tract and consisting of two parts: the vestibule and the oral cavity proper.
augmentation procedure	Procedimiento para aumentar el tamaño, la forma o el volumen de una estructura corporal
extrinsic allergic alveolitis	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
pneumonitis nos	A disorder characterized by inflammation focally or diffusely affecting the lung parenchyma.
alveolitis allergic	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
pulmonary alveolus	Small polyhedral outpouchings along the walls of the alveolar sacs, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles through the walls of which gas exchange between alveolar air and pulmonary capillary blood takes place.
allergic alveolitis	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
alveolitis - allergic	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
pulm alveoli	Small polyhedral outpouchings along the walls of the alveolar sacs, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles through the walls of which gas exchange between alveolar air and pulmonary capillary blood takes place.
substances	Any matter of defined composition that has discrete existence, whose origin may be biological, mineral or chemical.
pulm alveolus	Small polyhedral outpouchings along the walls of the alveolar sacs, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles through the walls of which gas exchange between alveolar air and pulmonary capillary blood takes place.
hypersensitivity nos	Altered reactivity to an antigen, which can result in pathologic reactions upon subsequent exposure to that particular antigen.
abnormal pulmonary interstitial morphology	Abnormality of the lung parenchyma extending to the pulmonary interstitium and leading to diffuse pulmonary fibrosis. [HPO:probinson]
allerg alveol/pneum nos	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
house allergic alveolitis	House allergic alveolitis is a hypersensitivity pneumonitis resulting from the inhalation of an antigen to which an individual has been previously sensitised in his/her domestic environment.
allergic pneumonitis	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
pulmonary alveoli	Small polyhedral outpouchings along the walls of the alveolar sacs, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles through the walls of which gas exchange between alveolar air and pulmonary capillary blood takes place.
bagpipe lung	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
hypersensitivity pneumonitis nos	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
allergic reaction nos	Un proceso inmunitario patológico generalmente dirigido contra un antígeno extraño, que produce lesión tisular, por lo general transitoria. Es la concreción de la disposición alérgica. Con mayor frecuencia se aplica a la hipersensibilidad de tipo I pero pueden intervenir otros tipos de hipersensibilidad, especialmente del tipo IV (por ejemplo, dermatitis alérgica por contacto).
bagassosis	Difúzní onemocnění plicního parenchymu způsobené prachem vznikajícím při zpracování cukrové třtiny.
farmer's lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
bagasse disease	Difúzní onemocnění plicního parenchymu způsobené prachem vznikajícím při zpracování cukrové třtiny.
allergic; alveolitis	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
bird-fancier's lung nos	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
farmers lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
bird fanciers lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
bird fancier disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
farmers' lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
mouldy hay disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
pigeon fancier's lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
bird fancier's; disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
alveolitis extrinsic allergic	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
moldy hay; disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
bird-breeder's lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
extrinsic allergic alveolitides	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
farmer lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
pneumonitis allergic	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
bird breeders' disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
bird-fanciers' lung	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
allergic interstitial pneumonitis	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
farmer's lungs	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
bagasse workers' disease	Difúzní onemocnění plicního parenchymu způsobené prachem vznikajícím při zpracování cukrové třtiny.
mouldy-hay disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
eaa - extrinsic allergic alveolitis	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
moldy-hay disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled antigens associated with farm environment. Antigens in the farm dust are commonly from bacteria actinomycetes (SACCHAROPOLYSPORA and THERMOACTINOMYCES), fungi, and animal proteins in the soil, straw, crops, pelts, serum, and excreta.
pigeon fancier's; disease	A form of alveolitis or pneumonitis due to an acquired hypersensitivity to inhaled avian antigens, usually proteins in the dust of bird feathers and droppings.
alveoli pulm	Small polyhedral outpouchings along the walls of the alveolar sacs, alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles through the walls of which gas exchange between alveolar air and pulmonary capillary blood takes place.
baggasosis	A common interstitial lung disease caused by hypersensitivity reactions of PULMONARY ALVEOLI after inhalation of and sensitization to environmental antigens of microbial, animal, or chemical sources. The disease is characterized by lymphocytic alveolitis and granulomatous pneumonitis.
alveoloplasties	Conservative contouring of the alveolar process, in preparation for immediate or future denture construction. (Dorland, 28th ed)
dental-oral procedure and/or service	The total of dental diagnostic, preventive, and restorative services provided to meet the needs of a patient (from Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982).
alzheimers disease	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
memantine	AMANTADINE derivative that has some dopaminergic effects. It has been proposed as an antiparkinson agent.
alzheimers dementia	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
vitamin e	A generic descriptor for all TOCOPHEROLS and TOCOTRIENOLS that exhibit ALPHA-TOCOPHEROL activity. By virtue of the phenolic hydrogen on the 2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol nucleus, these compounds exhibit varying degree of antioxidant activity, depending on the site and number of methyl groups and the type of ISOPRENOIDS.
alzheimer disease	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
vitamin e acetate	The acetate ester of a fat-soluble vitamin with potent antioxidant properties. Considered essential for the stabilization of biological membranes (especially those with high amounts of polyunsaturated fatty acid), vitamin E is a generic name for a group of compounds known as tocopherols and tocotrienols (tocols). This agent is a potent peroxyl radical scavenger and inhibits noncompetitively cyclooxygenase activity in many tissues, resulting in a decrease in prostaglandin production. Vitamin E also inhibits angiogenesis and tumor dormancy through suppressing vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene transcription. (NCI04)
alzheimer's disease	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
donepezil	The hydrochloride salt of a piperidine derivative with neurocognitive-enhancing activity. Donepezil reversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase, thereby blocking the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and, consequently, increasing its activity. This agent may improve neurocognitive function in Alzheimer's disease, reduce sedation associated with opioid treatment of cancer pain, and improve neurocognitive function in patients who have received radiation therapy for primary brain tumors or brain metastases.
alzheimer's dementia	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
tacrine hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of tacrine, an aminoacridine derivative with cognitive stimulating property. Although the mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated, tacrine hydrochloride may bind reversibly to cholinesterase, acetylcholinesterase as well as butyrylcholinesterase, thereby decreasing the breakdown of acetylcholine, and prolonging synaptic actions as well as increased release of acetylcholine. In addition, this agent inhibits monoamine oxidase (MAO) and may inhibit the reuptake of catecholamines and serotonin. Finally, a novel mechanism of action studied in animal models suggests tacrine to attenuate the production of interleukin-1beta in the hippocampus and blood, thereby producing central and peripheral anti-inflammatory effects that may play a role in Alzheimer's disease.
donepezil hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of a piperidine derivative with neurocognitive-enhancing activity. Donepezil reversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase, thereby blocking the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and, consequently, increasing its activity. This agent may improve neurocognitive function in Alzheimer's disease, reduce sedation associated with opioid treatment of cancer pain, and improve neurocognitive function in patients who have received radiation therapy for primary brain tumors or brain metastases.
memantine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of memantine, a low-affinity, voltage-dependent, noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. Memantine binds to and inhibits cation channels of glutamanergic NMDA receptors located in the central nervous system (CNS), preventing the prolonged influx of calcium ions and the associated neuronal excitotoxicity, and thereby potentially enhancing cognitive function. Memantine is also a 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5HT3) receptor and nicotinic receptor antagonist.
rivastigmine tartrate	The tartrate salt form of rivastigmine, a phenylcarbamate derivative exhibiting cognitive stimulating property. Although the mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated, rivastigmine tartrate may bind reversibly to cholinesterase, thereby decreasing the breakdown of acetylcholine and enhancing cholinergic function.
galantamine hydrobromide	The hydrobromide salt form of galantamine, a tertiary alkaloid obtained synthetically or naturally from the bulbs and flowers of Narcissus and several other genera of the Amaryllidaceae family with anticholinesterase and neurocognitive-enhancing activities. Galantamine competitively and reversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase, thereby increasing the concentration and enhancing the action of acetylcholine (Ach). In addition, galantamine is a ligand for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, which may increase the presynaptic release of Ach and activate postsynaptic receptors. This agent may improve neurocognitive function in mild and moderate Alzheimer' s disease and may reduce abstinence-induced cognitive symptoms that promote smoking relapse.
alzheimer's diseases	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
dl-α-tocopherol	A synthetic form of vitamin E, a fat-soluble vitamin with potent antioxidant properties. Considered essential for the stabilization of biological membranes (especially those with high amounts of polyunsaturated fatty acids), d-alpha-Tocopherol is a potent peroxyl radical scavenger and inhibits noncompetitively cyclooxygenase activity in many tissues, resulting in a decrease in prostaglandin production. Vitamin E also inhibits angiogenesis and tumor dormancy through suppressing vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene transcription. (NCI04)
alzheimer's caregivers	<p>A <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/caregivers.html">caregiver</a> gives care to someone who needs help taking care of themselves. It can be rewarding. It may help to strengthen connections to a loved one. You may feel fulfillment from helping someone else. But sometimes caregiving can be stressful and even overwhelming. This can be especially true when caring for someone with <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/alzheimersdisease.html">Alzheimer's disease</a> (AD).</p> <p>AD is an illness that changes the brain. It causes people to lose the ability to remember, think, and use good judgment. They also have trouble taking care of themselves. Over time, as the disease gets worse, they will need more and more help. As a caregiver, it is important for you to learn about AD. You will want to know what happens to the person during the different stages of the disease. This can help you plan for the future, so that you will have all of the resources you will need to be able to take care of your loved one.</p> <p>As a caregiver for someone with AD, your responsibilities can include</p> <ul> <li>Getting your loved one's health, legal, and financial affairs in order. If possible, include them in the planning while they can still make decisions. Later you will need to take over managing their finances and paying their bills. </li><li>Evaluating their house and making sure it's safe for their needs</li> <li>Monitoring their ability to drive. You may want to hire a driving specialist who can test their driving skills. When it is no longer safe for your loved one to drive, you need to make sure that they stop.</li> <li>Encouraging your loved one to get some <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/exerciseforolderadults.html">physical activity</a>. Exercising together may make it more fun for them.</li> <li>Making sure that your loved one has a <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/nutritionforolderadults.html">healthy diet</a></li> <li>Helping with daily tasks like bathing, eating, or taking medicine</li> <li>Doing housework and cooking</li> <li>Running errands such as shopping for food and clothes</li> <li>Driving them to appointments</li> <li>Providing company and emotional support</li> <li>Arranging medical care and making health decisions</li> </ul> <p>As you care for your loved one with AD, don't ignore your own needs. Caregiving can be stressful, and you need to <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/caregiverhealth.html">take care of your own physical and mental health</a>.</p> <p>At some point, you will not be able to do everything on your own. Make sure that you get help when you need it. There are many different services available, including</p> <ul> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/homecareservices.html">Home care services</a></li> <li>Adult day care services</li> <li>Respite services, which provide short-term care for the person with AD</li> <li>Federal and state government programs that can provide financial support and services</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/assistedliving.html">Assisted living facilities</a></li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/nursinghomes.html">Nursing homes</a>, some of which have special memory care units for people with AD</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/palliativecare.html">Palliative</a> and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/hospicecare.html">hospice</a> care</li> </ul> <p>You might consider hiring a geriatric care manager. They are specially trained professionals who can help you to find the right services for your needs.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute on Aging</p>
autosomal dominant form	Autosomal dominant inheritance refers to genetic conditions that occur when a mutation is present in one copy of a given gene (i.e., the person is heterozygous).
alzheimer type dementia	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
neurocognitive disorders	A disorder characterized by a decline primarily in intellectual function due to disease of the brain caused by a variety of acquired conditions such as cerebrovascular disease, Alzheimer's disease, infections, adverse drug reactions and trauma.
neurocognitive disorder	A disorder characterized by a decline primarily in intellectual function due to disease of the brain caused by a variety of acquired conditions such as cerebrovascular disease, Alzheimer's disease, infections, adverse drug reactions and trauma.
memory functions	Complex mental function having four distinct phases: (1) memorizing or learning, (2) retention, (3) recall, and (4) recognition. Clinically, it is usually subdivided into immediate, recent, and remote memory.
caregivers for alzheimer's disease	<p>A <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/caregivers.html">caregiver</a> gives care to someone who needs help taking care of themselves. It can be rewarding. It may help to strengthen connections to a loved one. You may feel fulfillment from helping someone else. But sometimes caregiving can be stressful and even overwhelming. This can be especially true when caring for someone with <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/alzheimersdisease.html">Alzheimer's disease</a> (AD).</p> <p>AD is an illness that changes the brain. It causes people to lose the ability to remember, think, and use good judgment. They also have trouble taking care of themselves. Over time, as the disease gets worse, they will need more and more help. As a caregiver, it is important for you to learn about AD. You will want to know what happens to the person during the different stages of the disease. This can help you plan for the future, so that you will have all of the resources you will need to be able to take care of your loved one.</p> <p>As a caregiver for someone with AD, your responsibilities can include</p> <ul> <li>Getting your loved one's health, legal, and financial affairs in order. If possible, include them in the planning while they can still make decisions. Later you will need to take over managing their finances and paying their bills. </li><li>Evaluating their house and making sure it's safe for their needs</li> <li>Monitoring their ability to drive. You may want to hire a driving specialist who can test their driving skills. When it is no longer safe for your loved one to drive, you need to make sure that they stop.</li> <li>Encouraging your loved one to get some <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/exerciseforolderadults.html">physical activity</a>. Exercising together may make it more fun for them.</li> <li>Making sure that your loved one has a <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/nutritionforolderadults.html">healthy diet</a></li> <li>Helping with daily tasks like bathing, eating, or taking medicine</li> <li>Doing housework and cooking</li> <li>Running errands such as shopping for food and clothes</li> <li>Driving them to appointments</li> <li>Providing company and emotional support</li> <li>Arranging medical care and making health decisions</li> </ul> <p>As you care for your loved one with AD, don't ignore your own needs. Caregiving can be stressful, and you need to <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/caregiverhealth.html">take care of your own physical and mental health</a>.</p> <p>At some point, you will not be able to do everything on your own. Make sure that you get help when you need it. There are many different services available, including</p> <ul> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/homecareservices.html">Home care services</a></li> <li>Adult day care services</li> <li>Respite services, which provide short-term care for the person with AD</li> <li>Federal and state government programs that can provide financial support and services</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/assistedliving.html">Assisted living facilities</a></li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/nursinghomes.html">Nursing homes</a>, some of which have special memory care units for people with AD</li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/palliativecare.html">Palliative</a> and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/hospicecare.html">hospice</a> care</li> </ul> <p>You might consider hiring a geriatric care manager. They are specially trained professionals who can help you to find the right services for your needs.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute on Aging</p>
degenerative nerve diseases	<p>Degenerative nerve diseases affect many of your body's activities, such as balance, movement, talking, breathing, and heart function. Many of these diseases are genetic. Sometimes the cause is a medical condition such as alcoholism, a tumor, or a stroke. Other causes may include toxins, chemicals, and viruses. Sometimes the cause is unknown.</p> <p>Degenerative nerve diseases include</p> <ul> <li> <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/alzheimersdisease.html">Alzheimer's disease</a></li> <li> <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/amyotrophiclateralsclerosis.html">Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis</a></li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/friedreichsataxia.html">Friedreich's ataxia</a></li> <li> <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/huntingtonsdisease.html">Huntington's disease</a></li> <li> <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/lewybodydementia.html">Lewy body disease</a></li> <li><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/parkinsonsdisease.html">Parkinson's disease</a> </li> <li> <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/spinalmuscularatrophy.html">Spinal muscular atrophy</a></li> </ul> <p>Degenerative nerve diseases can be serious or life-threatening. It depends on the type. Most of them have no cure. Treatments may help improve symptoms, relieve pain, and increase mobility.</p>
alzheimer dementia	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
morphological abnormality of the cns	A structural abnormality of the central nervous system. [HPO:probinson]
alzheimer syndrome	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
dementia with mixed etiology	Mixed dementia is the co-occurrence of Alzheimer disease and cerebrovascular disease.
tissue degeneration	Disturbance of cell integrity and deterioration of normal tissue, cells or organs.
telencephalon	The anterior subdivision of the embryonic PROSENCEPHALON or the corresponding part of the adult prosencephalon that includes the cerebrum and associated structures.
impaired	A loss of part or all of a physical or mental ability, such as the ability to see, walk, or learn.
cerebrum	part of the brain derived from the embryonic telencephalon and consisting of the cortex and white matter of the cerebral hemispheres, the basal ganglia, and certain other basal structures which are a part of the rhinencephalon.
neuraxis	The main information-processing organs of the nervous system, consisting of the brain, spinal cord, and meninges.
primary senile degenerative dementia	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
dementia	An acquired organic mental disorder with loss of intellectual abilities of sufficient severity to interfere with social or occupational functioning. The dysfunction is multifaceted and involves memory, behavior, personality, judgment, attention, spatial relations, language, abstract thought, and other executive functions. The intellectual decline is usually progressive, and initially spares the level of consciousness.
degenerative change	Disturbance of cell integrity and deterioration of normal tissue, cells or organs.
sclerosis; alzheimer	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
central nervous system	The main information-processing organs of the nervous system, consisting of the brain, spinal cord, and meninges.
pn-ii	Amyloid beta A4 protein (770 aa, ~87 kDa) is encoded by the human APP gene. This protein is involved in cell surface receptor-mediated signaling and is processed by secretases into soluble peptides, membrane-anchored fragments, plaque amyloid components, transcriptional regulatory molecules and neurotoxic fragments.
hla-a gene	This gene is involved in immune responses and histocompatibility processes.
apoe gene	This gene is involved in lipid transport and metabolism.
abeta	Human APP wild-type allele is located in the vicinity of 22q13.2 and is approximately 290 kb in length. This allele, which encodes amyloid beta A4 protein, is involved in transcriptional activation and peptide regulation. APP defects can cause Alzheimer's disease and cerebroarterial amyloidosis.
alzheimers diseases	A degenerative disease of the BRAIN characterized by the insidious onset of DEMENTIA. Impairment of MEMORY, judgment, attention span, and problem solving skills are followed by severe APRAXIAS and a global loss of cognitive abilities. The condition primarily occurs after age 60, and is marked pathologically by severe cortical atrophy and the triad of SENILE PLAQUES; NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES; and NEUROPIL THREADS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1049-57)
amanita phalloides	A type of poisonous mushroom that has harmful effects on the kidneys and liver. It is responsible for most fatal cases of mushroom poisoning.
amanitine	Cyclic peptides extracted from carpophores of various mushroom species. They are potent inhibitors of RNA polymerases in most eukaryotic species, blocking the production of mRNA and protein synthesis. These peptides are important in the study of transcription. Alpha-amanitin is the main toxin from the species Amanitia phalloides, poisonous if ingested by humans or animals.
amanitin	Cyclic peptides extracted from carpophores of various mushroom species. They are potent inhibitors of RNA polymerases in most eukaryotic species, blocking the production of mRNA and protein synthesis. These peptides are important in the study of transcription. Alpha-amanitin is the main toxin from the species Amanitia phalloides, poisonous if ingested by humans or animals.
amanitotoxin	Cyclic peptides extracted from carpophores of various mushroom species. They are potent inhibitors of RNA polymerases in most eukaryotic species, blocking the production of mRNA and protein synthesis. These peptides are important in the study of transcription. Alpha-amanitin is the main toxin from the species Amanitia phalloides, poisonous if ingested by humans or animals.
amanitins	Cyclic peptides extracted from carpophores of various mushroom species. They are potent inhibitors of RNA polymerases in most eukaryotic species, blocking the production of mRNA and protein synthesis. These peptides are important in the study of transcription. Alpha-amanitin is the main toxin from the species Amanitia phalloides, poisonous if ingested by humans or animals.
enzymes inhibitors	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
product containing amantadine	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
analgesics non-narcotic	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
amatadine	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
amantadine sulfate	The sulfate salt of amantadine, a synthetic tricyclic amine with antiviral, antiparkinsonian, and antihyperalgesic activities. Amantadine appears to exert its antiviral effect against the influenza A virus by interfering with the function of the transmembrane domain of the viral M2 protein, thereby preventing the release of infectious viral nucleic acids into host cells; furthermore, this agent prevents virus assembly during virus replication. Amantadine exerts its antiparkinsonian effects by stimulating the release of dopamine from striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals and inhibiting its pre-synaptic reuptake. This agent may also exert some anticholinergic effect through inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine, resulting in antihyperalgesia.
amantadinum	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
dopaminergic agents	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
dopaminergic drugs	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
amantadina	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
antiparkinsonian drugs	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
adamantylamine	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
non-opioid analgesics	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
nonopioid analgesic	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
amantadine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of amantadine, a synthetic tricyclic amine with antiviral, antiparkinsonian, and antihyperalgesic activities. Amantadine appears to exert its antiviral effect against the influenza A virus by interfering with the function of the transmembrane domain of the viral M2 protein, thereby preventing the release of infectious viral nucleic acids into host cells; furthermore, this agent prevents virus assembly during virus replication. Amantadine exerts its antiparkinsonian effects by stimulating the release of dopamine from striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals and inhibiting its pre-synaptic reuptake. This agent may also exert some anticholinergic effect through inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine, resulting in antihyperalgesia. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C28818" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C28818" NCI Thesaurus)
amantadine hydrochloride - chemical	The hydrochloride salt of amantadine, a synthetic tricyclic amine with antiviral, antiparkinsonian, and antihyperalgesic activities. Amantadine appears to exert its antiviral effect against the influenza A virus by interfering with the function of the transmembrane domain of the viral M2 protein, thereby preventing the release of infectious viral nucleic acids into host cells; furthermore, this agent prevents virus assembly during virus replication. Amantadine exerts its antiparkinsonian effects by stimulating the release of dopamine from striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals and inhibiting its pre-synaptic reuptake. This agent may also exert some anticholinergic effect through inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine, resulting in antihyperalgesia. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C28818" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C28818" NCI Thesaurus)
antiparkinson drug	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
dopamine ag	Drugs that bind to and activate dopamine receptors.
aminoadamantane	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
allergy drug	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
influenza	acute viral infection involving the respiratory tract; marked by inflammation of the nasal mucosa, the pharynx, and conjunctiva, and by headache and severe, often generalized, myalgia.
influenzas	acute viral infection involving the respiratory tract; marked by inflammation of the nasal mucosa, the pharynx, and conjunctiva, and by headache and severe, often generalized, myalgia.
idiopathic parkinson dis	A progressive, degenerative neurologic disease characterized by a TREMOR that is maximal at rest, retropulsion (i.e. a tendency to fall backwards), rigidity, stooped posture, slowness of voluntary movements, and a masklike facial expression. Pathologic features include loss of melanin containing neurons in the substantia nigra and other pigmented nuclei of the brainstem. LEWY BODIES are present in the substantia nigra and locus coeruleus but may also be found in a related condition (LEWY BODY DISEASE, DIFFUSE) characterized by dementia in combination with varying degrees of parkinsonism. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1059, pp1067-75)
amantadine hcl	The hydrochloride salt of amantadine, a synthetic tricyclic amine with antiviral, antiparkinsonian, and antihyperalgesic activities. Amantadine appears to exert its antiviral effect against the influenza A virus by interfering with the function of the transmembrane domain of the viral M2 protein, thereby preventing the release of infectious viral nucleic acids into host cells; furthermore, this agent prevents virus assembly during virus replication. Amantadine exerts its antiparkinsonian effects by stimulating the release of dopamine from striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals and inhibiting its pre-synaptic reuptake. This agent may also exert some anticholinergic effect through inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine, resulting in antihyperalgesia. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C28818" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C28818" NCI Thesaurus)
non opioid analgesic	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
amantadine product	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
non-opioid analgesic product	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
dopamine agents	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
amantadine sulphate	The sulfate salt of amantadine, a synthetic tricyclic amine with antiviral, antiparkinsonian, and antihyperalgesic activities. Amantadine appears to exert its antiviral effect against the influenza A virus by interfering with the function of the transmembrane domain of the viral M2 protein, thereby preventing the release of infectious viral nucleic acids into host cells; furthermore, this agent prevents virus assembly during virus replication. Amantadine exerts its antiparkinsonian effects by stimulating the release of dopamine from striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals and inhibiting its pre-synaptic reuptake. This agent may also exert some anticholinergic effect through inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine, resulting in antihyperalgesia.
amantidine	An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A. It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia. The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
dystonia	An attitude or posture due to the co-contraction of agonists and antagonist muscles in one region of the body. It most often affects the large axial muscles of the trunk and limb girdles. Conditions which feature persistent or recurrent episodes of dystonia as a primary manifestation of disease are referred to as DYSTONIC DISORDERS. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p77)
parkinson's disease	A progressive, degenerative neurologic disease characterized by a TREMOR that is maximal at rest, retropulsion (i.e. a tendency to fall backwards), rigidity, stooped posture, slowness of voluntary movements, and a masklike facial expression. Pathologic features include loss of melanin containing neurons in the substantia nigra and other pigmented nuclei of the brainstem. LEWY BODIES are present in the substantia nigra and locus coeruleus but may also be found in a related condition (LEWY BODY DISEASE, DIFFUSE) characterized by dementia in combination with varying degrees of parkinsonism. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1059, pp1067-75)
acathisia drug ind	A condition associated with the use of certain medications and characterized by an internal sense of motor restlessness often described as an inability to resist the urge to move.
amaranth dye	3-hydroxy-4-((4-sulfo-1-naftalenyl)azo)-2,7-naftalendisulfonsyra, trinatriumsalt. Ett sulfonsyrabaserat naftylazofärgämne som använts i livsmedel och mediciner, samt som kemisk indikator.
drug excipient	Usually inert substances added to a prescription in order to provide suitable consistency to the dosage form. These include binders, matrix, base or diluent in pills, tablets, creams, salves, etc.
amaranth	3-hydroxy-4-((4-sulfo-1-naftalenyl)azo)-2,7-naftalendisulfonsyra, trinatriumsalt. Ett sulfonsyrabaserat naftylazofärgämne som använts i livsmedel och mediciner, samt som kemisk indikator.
amaranths	3-hydroxy-4-((4-sulfo-1-naftalenyl)azo)-2,7-naftalendisulfonsyra, trinatriumsalt. Ett sulfonsyrabaserat naftylazofärgämne som använts i livsmedel och mediciner, samt som kemisk indikator.
naphthylamine red	3-hydroxy-4-((4-sulfo-1-naftalenyl)azo)-2,7-naftalendisulfonsyra, trinatriumsalt. Ett sulfonsyrabaserat naftylazofärgämne som använts i livsmedel och mediciner, samt som kemisk indikator.
amaranthus	A plant genus, in the family AMARANTHACEAE, best known as a source of high-protein grain crops and of Red Dye No. 2 (AMARANTH DYE). Tumbleweed sometimes refers to Amaranthus but more often refers to SALSOLA.
product containing amaranth leaf	3-hydroxy-4-((4-sulfo-1-naftalenyl)azo)-2,7-naftalendisulfonsyra, trinatriumsalt. Ett sulfonsyrabaserat naftylazofärgämne som använts i livsmedel och mediciner, samt som kemisk indikator.
food coloring	Natural or synthetic dyes used as coloring agents in processed foods.
azorubin s stain	3-hydroxy-4-((4-sulfo-1-naftalenyl)azo)-2,7-naftalendisulfonsyra, trinatriumsalt. Ett sulfonsyrabaserat naftylazofärgämne som använts i livsmedel och mediciner, samt som kemisk indikator.
ambenonium	A bisquaternary ammonium alcohol with parasympathomimetic activity. The positive charge of ambenonium allows it to act as an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor by binding to the anionic site at the reactive center of acetylcholinesterase, preventing the breakdown of acetylcholine and producing an indirect cholinomimetic effect at both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors. Ambenonium also has direct agonist activity at nicotinic receptors, potentiating the cholinomimetic effect at the neuromuscular junction.
myasthenia gravis	A disorder of neuromuscular transmission characterized by fatigable weakness of cranial and skeletal muscles with elevated titers of ACETYLCHOLINE RECEPTORS or muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK) autoantibodies. Clinical manifestations may include ocular muscle weakness (fluctuating, asymmetric, external ophthalmoplegia; diplopia; ptosis; and weakness of eye closure) and extraocular fatigable weakness of facial, bulbar, respiratory, and proximal limb muscles. The disease may remain limited to the ocular muscles (ocular myasthenia). THYMOMA is commonly associated with this condition.
ambenonium chloride	A quaternary ammonium compound that is an inhibitor of cholinesterase activity with actions similar to those of NEOSTIGMINE, but of longer duration. Ambenonium is given by mouth in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1112)
anticholinesterase drugs	Drugs that inhibit cholinesterases. The neurotransmitter ACETYLCHOLINE is rapidly hydrolyzed, and thereby inactivated, by cholinesterases. When cholinesterases are inhibited, the action of endogenously released acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses is potentiated. Cholinesterase inhibitors are widely used clinically for their potentiation of cholinergic inputs to the gastrointestinal tract and urinary bladder, the eye, and skeletal muscles; they are also used for their effects on the heart and the central nervous system.
parasympathomimetic agent	Drugs that mimic the effects of parasympathetic nervous system activity. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate muscarinic receptors and drugs that potentiate cholinergic activity, usually by slowing the breakdown of acetylcholine (CHOLINESTERASE INHIBITORS). Drugs that stimulate both sympathetic and parasympathetic postganglionic neurons (GANGLIONIC STIMULANTS) are not included here.
misuran	A quaternary ammonium compound that is an inhibitor of cholinesterase activity with actions similar to those of NEOSTIGMINE, but of longer duration. Ambenonium is given by mouth in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1112)
oxazyl	A quaternary ammonium compound that is an inhibitor of cholinesterase activity with actions similar to those of NEOSTIGMINE, but of longer duration. Ambenonium is given by mouth in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1112)
quaternary ammonium compound product	Oorganiska och organiska föreningar som innehåller den hypotetiska radikalen NH4.
ambenonium base	A bisquaternary ammonium alcohol with parasympathomimetic activity. The positive charge of ambenonium allows it to act as an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor by binding to the anionic site at the reactive center of acetylcholinesterase, preventing the breakdown of acetylcholine and producing an indirect cholinomimetic effect at both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors. Ambenonium also has direct agonist activity at nicotinic receptors, potentiating the cholinomimetic effect at the neuromuscular junction.
ambestigmine chloride	A quaternary ammonium compound that is an inhibitor of cholinesterase activity with actions similar to those of NEOSTIGMINE, but of longer duration. Ambenonium is given by mouth in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1112)
parasympathomimetic drugs	Drugs that mimic the effects of parasympathetic nervous system activity. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate muscarinic receptors and drugs that potentiate cholinergic activity, usually by slowing the breakdown of acetylcholine (CHOLINESTERASE INHIBITORS). Drugs that stimulate both sympathetic and parasympathetic postganglionic neurons (GANGLIONIC STIMULANTS) are not included here.
amblyopia	A nonspecific term referring to impaired vision. Major subcategories include stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia and toxic amblyopia. Stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia is a developmental disorder of the visual cortex. A discrepancy between visual information received by the visual cortex from each eye results in abnormal cortical development. STRABISMUS and REFRACTIVE ERRORS may cause this condition. Toxic amblyopia is a disorder of the OPTIC NERVE which is associated with ALCOHOLISM, tobacco SMOKING, and other toxins and as an adverse effect of the use of some medications.
pharyngeal pouch syndrome	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
eye movement disorder	Disorders that feature impairment of eye movements as a primary manifestation of disease. These conditions may be divided into infranuclear, nuclear, and supranuclear disorders. Diseases of the eye muscles or oculomotor cranial nerves (III, IV, and VI) are considered infranuclear. Nuclear disorders are caused by disease of the oculomotor, trochlear, or abducens nuclei in the BRAIN STEM. Supranuclear disorders are produced by dysfunction of higher order sensory and motor systems that control eye movements, including neural networks in the CEREBRAL CORTEX; BASAL GANGLIA; CEREBELLUM; and BRAIN STEM. Ocular torticollis refers to a head tilt that is caused by an ocular misalignment. Opsoclonus refers to rapid, conjugate oscillations of the eyes in multiple directions, which may occur as a parainfectious or paraneoplastic condition (e.g., OPSOCLONUS-MYOCLONUS SYNDROME). (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p240)
lazy eye	A nonspecific term referring to impaired vision. Major subcategories include stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia and toxic amblyopia. Stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia is a developmental disorder of the visual cortex. A discrepancy between visual information received by the visual cortex from each eye results in abnormal cortical development. STRABISMUS and REFRACTIVE ERRORS may cause this condition. Toxic amblyopia is a disorder of the OPTIC NERVE which is associated with ALCOHOLISM, tobacco SMOKING, and other toxins and as an adverse effect of the use of some medications.
unspecified amblyopia	A nonspecific term referring to impaired vision. Major subcategories include stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia and toxic amblyopia. Stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia is a developmental disorder of the visual cortex. A discrepancy between visual information received by the visual cortex from each eye results in abnormal cortical development. STRABISMUS and REFRACTIVE ERRORS may cause this condition. Toxic amblyopia is a disorder of the OPTIC NERVE which is associated with ALCOHOLISM, tobacco SMOKING, and other toxins and as an adverse effect of the use of some medications.
visual disturbances	An interference to normal eyesight.
sense of sight	sense of sight.
amblyopic	A nonspecific term referring to impaired vision. Major subcategories include stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia and toxic amblyopia. Stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia is a developmental disorder of the visual cortex. A discrepancy between visual information received by the visual cortex from each eye results in abnormal cortical development. STRABISMUS and REFRACTIVE ERRORS may cause this condition. Toxic amblyopia is a disorder of the OPTIC NERVE which is associated with ALCOHOLISM, tobacco SMOKING, and other toxins and as an adverse effect of the use of some medications.
disease of eyeball	Diseases affecting the eye.
vision impairment and blindness	<p>If you have low vision, eyeglasses, contact lenses, medicine, or surgery may not help. Activities like reading, shopping, cooking, writing, and watching TV may be hard to do. The leading causes of low vision and blindness in the United States are age-related eye diseases: <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/maculardegeneration.html">macular degeneration</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/cataract.html">cataract</a> and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/glaucoma.html">glaucoma</a>. Other <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/eyediseases.html">eye disorders</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/eyeinjuries.html">eye injuries</a>, and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> can also cause vision loss. </p> <p>Whatever the cause, lost vision cannot be restored. It can, however, be managed. A loss of vision means that you may have to reorganize your life and learn new ways of doing things. If you have some vision, visual aids such as special glasses and large print books can make life easier. There are also devices to help those with no vision, like text-reading software and braille books.</p> <p>The sooner vision loss or eye disease is found and treated, the greater your chances of keeping your remaining vision. You should have <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/eyecare.html">regular comprehensive eye exams</a> by an eye care professional.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Eye Institute</p>
non-neoplastic vision disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that causes a disturbance in normal vision. Representative examples include amblyopia, astigmatism, myopia, and cataracts.
low visual acuity	Diminished clarity of vision.
disorder; visual	Visual impairments limiting one or more of the basic functions of the eye: visual acuity, dark adaptation, color vision, or peripheral vision. These may result from EYE DISEASES; OPTIC NERVE DISEASES; VISUAL PATHWAY diseases; OCCIPITAL LOBE diseases; OCULAR MOTILITY DISORDERS; and other conditions (From Newell, Ophthalmology: Principles and Concepts, 7th ed, p132).
ocular vision	sense of sight.
amblyopias	A nonspecific term referring to impaired vision. Major subcategories include stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia and toxic amblyopia. Stimulus deprivation-induced amblyopia is a developmental disorder of the visual cortex. A discrepancy between visual information received by the visual cortex from each eye results in abnormal cortical development. STRABISMUS and REFRACTIVE ERRORS may cause this condition. Toxic amblyopia is a disorder of the OPTIC NERVE which is associated with ALCOHOLISM, tobacco SMOKING, and other toxins and as an adverse effect of the use of some medications.
visual structure	The eye, ocular adnexa, afferent visual pathways, efferent visual pathways, and pupil innervation pathways
ambroxol	A metabolite of BROMHEXINE that stimulates mucociliary action and clears the air passages in the respiratory tract. It is usually administered as the hydrochloride.
bromhexine metabolite viii	A metabolite of BROMHEXINE that stimulates mucociliary action and clears the air passages in the respiratory tract. It is usually administered as the hydrochloride.
bisolvon metabolite viii	A metabolite of BROMHEXINE that stimulates mucociliary action and clears the air passages in the respiratory tract. It is usually administered as the hydrochloride.
ambulances	A vehicle equipped for transporting patients in need of emergency care.
water ambulances	Water craft (e.g., landing craft, speed boats) designed for transporting the sick or wounded that are equipped with the necessary devices and supplies to maintain or improve the clinical status of the patient during water transport.
transport wounded sick	Conveying ill or injured individuals from one place to another.
sea ambulances	Water craft (e.g., landing craft, speed boats) designed for transporting the sick or wounded that are equipped with the necessary devices and supplies to maintain or improve the clinical status of the patient during water transport.
air ambulance transport	Fixed-wing aircraft or helicopters equipped for air transport of patients.
ambulance boats	Water craft (e.g., landing craft, speed boats) designed for transporting the sick or wounded that are equipped with the necessary devices and supplies to maintain or improve the clinical status of the patient during water transport.
outpatient care facility	Those facilities which administer health services to individuals who do not require hospitalization or institutionalization.
clinic	A health care facility where patients are admitted to get treatment provided by a group of physicians practicing medicine together.
clinics outpatients	Those facilities which administer health services to individuals who do not require hospitalization or institutionalization.
health care facility	Institutions which provide medical or health-related services.
free-standing clinic	A facility that provides medical care that can be safely performed without requiring inpatient hospital care.
clinics walk in	A healthcare facility where an individual can visit a medical professional without needing an appointment.
procedures ambulatory surg	Surgery performed on an outpatient basis. It may be hospital-based or performed in an office or surgicenter.
surgery	branch of medicine that deals with the treatment of injury, deformity, and disease by manual and instrumental means.
outpatient surgery	Surgery performed on an outpatient basis. It may be hospital-based or performed in an office or surgicenter.
ambulatory surg procedure	Surgery performed on an outpatient basis. It may be hospital-based or performed in an office or surgicenter.
ambulatory surgical procedures	Surgery performed on an outpatient basis. It may be hospital-based or performed in an office or surgicenter.
ambystoma	A genus of the Ambystomatidae family. The best known species are the axolotl AMBYSTOMA MEXICANUM and the closely related tiger salamander Ambystoma tigrinum. They may retain gills and remain aquatic without developing all of the adult characteristics. However, under proper changes in the environment they metamorphose.
caudata	order of Amphibia which includes salamanders and newts.
ambystomatidae	A family of the class Urodela which includes 4 living genera, about 33 species, and occurs only in North America. Adults are usually terrestrial, but the larval forms are aquatic.
mexican salamander	A salamander found in Mexican mountain lakes and accounting for about 30 percent of the urodeles used in research. The axolotl remains in larval form throughout its life, a phenomenon known as neoteny.
ambystoma mexicanum	A salamander found in Mexican mountain lakes and accounting for about 30 percent of the urodeles used in research. The axolotl remains in larval form throughout its life, a phenomenon known as neoteny.
amblystomas	A genus of the Ambystomatidae family. The best known species are the axolotl AMBYSTOMA MEXICANUM and the closely related tiger salamander Ambystoma tigrinum. They may retain gills and remain aquatic without developing all of the adult characteristics. However, under proper changes in the environment they metamorphose.
ambystoma mexicanums	A salamander found in Mexican mountain lakes and accounting for about 30 percent of the urodeles used in research. The axolotl remains in larval form throughout its life, a phenomenon known as neoteny.
order caudata - salamander	order of Amphibia which includes salamanders and newts.
mecillinam	An amidinopenicillanic acid derivative with broad spectrum antibacterial action.
urinary anti-infective	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
antibacterial agents	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
mecillinamum	An amidinopenicillanic acid derivative with broad spectrum antibacterial action.
penicillin antibiotic	A group of antibiotics that contain 6-aminopenicillanic acid with a side chain attached to the 6-amino group. The penicillin nucleus is the chief structural requirement for biological activity. The side-chain structure determines many of the antibacterial and pharmacological characteristics. (Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p1065)
amdinocillin	An amidinopenicillanic acid derivative with broad spectrum antibacterial action.
pivamdinocillin	Pivaloyloxymethyl ester of amdinocillin that is well absorbed orally, but broken down to amdinocillin in the intestinal mucosa. It is active against gram-negative organisms and used as for amdinocillin.
urinary anti infective agents	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
product containing antibacterial	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
urinary anti-infectives	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
penicillin	A group of antibiotics that contain 6-aminopenicillanic acid with a side chain attached to the 6-amino group. The penicillin nucleus is the chief structural requirement for biological activity. The side-chain structure determines many of the antibacterial and pharmacological characteristics. (Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p1065)
amdinocillin pivoxil	Pivaloyloxymethyl ester of amdinocillin that is well absorbed orally, but broken down to amdinocillin in the intestinal mucosa. It is active against gram-negative organisms and used as for amdinocillin.
amdinocillin pivoxil product	Pivaloyloxymethyl ester of amdinocillin that is well absorbed orally, but broken down to amdinocillin in the intestinal mucosa. It is active against gram-negative organisms and used as for amdinocillin.
urinary tract infection	Inflammatory responses of the epithelium of the URINARY TRACT to microbial invasions. They are often bacterial infections with associated BACTERIURIA and PYURIA.
product containing mecillinam	An amidinopenicillanic acid derivative with broad spectrum antibacterial action.
anti infective urinary	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
penicillin hx	An amidinopenicillanic acid derivative with broad spectrum antibacterial action.
urinary anti infect agents	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
pivmecillinam	Pivaloyloxymethyl ester of amdinocillin that is well absorbed orally, but broken down to amdinocillin in the intestinal mucosa. It is active against gram-negative organisms and used as for amdinocillin.
antibacterial product	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
antiinfective agents urinary	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
urinary anti-infective agents	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
urinary anti-infective agent	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
pivmecillinamum	Pivaloyloxymethyl ester of amdinocillin that is well absorbed orally, but broken down to amdinocillin in the intestinal mucosa. It is active against gram-negative organisms and used as for amdinocillin.
product containing amdinocillin	An amidinopenicillanic acid derivative with broad spectrum antibacterial action.
antiinfect agents urinary	Substances capable of killing agents causing urinary tract infections or of preventing them from spreading.
amebiases	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
amebiasis	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
ornidazole	A nitroimidazole antiprotozoal agent used in ameba and trichomonas infections. It is partially plasma-bound and also has radiation-sensitizing action.
paromomycin -retired-	An aminoglycoside antibacterial and antiprotozoal agent produced by species of STREPTOMYCES.
amoebic infections	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
aminosidine sulfate	The sulfate salt form of paromomycin, a structural derivative of neomycin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic with amebicidal and bactericidal effects against predominantly aerobic gram-negative bacteria. Paromomycin binds specifically to the RNA oligonucleotide at the A site of bacterial 30S ribosomes, thereby causing misreading and premature termination of translation of mRNA and inhibition of protein synthesis followed by cell death.
amoebiases	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
emetine hydrochloride	The chloride salt of a white crystalline bitter alkaloid isolated from the root of the plant Psychotria Ipecacuanha (ipecac root) and other plants with antiemetic and anthelminthic properties. Emetine inhibits protein synthesis in eukaryotic (but not prokaryotic) cells by irreversibly blocking ribosome movement along the mRNA strand and inhibits DNA replication in the early S phase of the cell cycle. (NCI04)
amebiasis nos	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
infection by entamoeba	Infection with amoebae of the genus ENTAMOEBA. Infection with E. histolytica causes DYSENTERY, AMEBIC and LIVER ABSCESS, AMEBIC.
amoebic dysentery	DYSENTERY caused by intestinal amebic infection, chiefly with ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA. This condition may be associated with amebic infection of the LIVER and other distant sites.
parasitic disease	An infection caused by a parasite.
parasitic infection	An infection caused by a parasite.
amoebiasis	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
entamoebiases	Infection with amoebae of the genus ENTAMOEBA. Infection with E. histolytica causes DYSENTERY, AMEBIC and LIVER ABSCESS, AMEBIC.
entamoeba	A genus of ameboid protozoa characterized by the presence of beaded chromatin on the inner surface of the nuclear membrane. Its organisms are parasitic in invertebrates and vertebrates, including humans.
amoebiasis nos	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
entamoeba histolytica	species of parasitic protozoa causing entamoebiasis and amebic dysentery; characteristics include a single nucleus containing a small central karyosome and peripheral chromatin that is finely and regularly beaded.
parasite	Invertebrate organisms that live on or in another organism (the host), and benefit at the expense of the other. Traditionally excluded from definition of parasites are pathogenic BACTERIA; FUNGI; VIRUSES; and PLANTS; though they may live parasitically.
amoebic infection	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
amebic colitis	DYSENTERY caused by intestinal amebic infection, chiefly with ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA. This condition may be associated with amebic infection of the LIVER and other distant sites.
hepatic amebiasis	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
infection by entameba	Infection with amoebae of the genus ENTAMOEBA. Infection with E. histolytica causes DYSENTERY, AMEBIC and LIVER ABSCESS, AMEBIC.
disease due to endamoebidae	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
infective disorder	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
endamoeba histolytica	species of parasitic protozoa causing entamoebiasis and amebic dysentery; characteristics include a single nucleus containing a small central karyosome and peripheral chromatin that is finely and regularly beaded.
contagious agent	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
amoeba	A genus of ameboid protozoa. Characteristics include a vesicular nucleus and the formation of several PSEUDOPODIA, one of which is dominant at a given time. Reproduction occurs asexually by binary fission.
intestinal amoebiasis	DYSENTERY caused by intestinal amebic infection, chiefly with ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA. This condition may be associated with amebic infection of the LIVER and other distant sites.
amebic infection	Infection with any of various amebae. It is an asymptomatic carrier state in most individuals, but diseases ranging from chronic, mild diarrhea to fulminant dysentery may occur.
bowel	The section of the alimentary canal from the STOMACH to the ANAL CANAL. It includes the LARGE INTESTINE and SMALL INTESTINE.
sarcodine parasite	subphylum of protozoa characterized by the ability to alter their body shape; organisms acquire food by pseudopodia of various types, or by locomotive protoplasmic flow without the production of discrete pseudopodia; flagella, when present, are usually restricted to developmental or other temporary stages.
hepatic amoebiasis	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
infectious diarrhea	Acute inflammation of the intestine associated with infectious DIARRHEA of various etiologies, generally acquired by eating contaminated food containing TOXINS, BIOLOGICAL derived from BACTERIA or other microorganisms. Dysentery is characterized initially by watery FECES then by bloody mucoid stools. It is often associated with ABDOMINAL PAIN; FEVER; and DEHYDRATION.
infect dis	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
eh - entamoeba histolytica	species of parasitic protozoa causing entamoebiasis and amebic dysentery; characteristics include a single nucleus containing a small central karyosome and peripheral chromatin that is finely and regularly beaded.
parasitic infection nos	An infection caused by a parasite.
subphylum sarcodina	subphylum of protozoa characterized by the ability to alter their body shape; organisms acquire food by pseudopodia of various types, or by locomotive protoplasmic flow without the production of discrete pseudopodia; flagella, when present, are usually restricted to developmental or other temporary stages.
parasites	Invertebrate organisms that live on or in another organism (the host), and benefit at the expense of the other. Traditionally excluded from definition of parasites are pathogenic BACTERIA; FUNGI; VIRUSES; and PLANTS; though they may live parasitically.
protozoa	highly motile, unicellular eukaryotes, usually predatory or parasitic; movement by cilia, flagella or ameboid motion; may be aquatic or terrestrial.
entamoeba infections	Infection with amoebae of the genus ENTAMOEBA. Infection with E. histolytica causes DYSENTERY, AMEBIC and LIVER ABSCESS, AMEBIC.
amebic; colitis	DYSENTERY caused by intestinal amebic infection, chiefly with ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA. This condition may be associated with amebic infection of the LIVER and other distant sites.
protozoal infection	Infections with unicellular organisms formerly members of the subkingdom Protozoa.
amebicide	Agents which are destructive to amebae, especially the parasitic species causing AMEBIASIS in man and animal.
amphotericin b	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
amoebicide product	Agents which are destructive to amebae, especially the parasitic species causing AMEBIASIS in man and animal.
chloroquine	The prototypical antimalarial agent with a mechanism that is not well understood. It has also been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and in the systemic therapy of amebic liver abscesses.
amebicides	Agents which are destructive to amebae, especially the parasitic species causing AMEBIASIS in man and animal.
amfotericina b	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
amoebicide	Agents which are destructive to amebae, especially the parasitic species causing AMEBIASIS in man and animal.
niridazole	An antischistosomal agent that has become obsolete.
amoebicides	Agents which are destructive to amebae, especially the parasitic species causing AMEBIASIS in man and animal.
product containing amebicide	Agents which are destructive to amebae, especially the parasitic species causing AMEBIASIS in man and animal.
paromomycin	An aminoglycoside antibacterial and antiprotozoal agent produced by species of STREPTOMYCES.
ornidazol	A nitroimidazole antiprotozoal agent used in ameba and trichomonas infections. It is partially plasma-bound and also has radiation-sensitizing action.
glaucarubin	(1 beta,2 alpha,11 beta,12 alpha,15 beta(S))-11,20-Epoxy-1,2,11,12-tetrahydroxy-15-(2-hydroxy-2-methyl-1-oxobutoxy)picras-3-en-16-one. A quassinoid (Simaroubolide) from Simaruba glauca, a tropical shrub. It has been used as an antiamebic agent and is found to be cytotoxic. It may be of use in cancer chemotherapy.
metronidazolum	A nitroimidazole used to treat AMEBIASIS; VAGINITIS; TRICHOMONAS INFECTIONS; GIARDIASIS; ANAEROBIC BACTERIA; and TREPONEMAL INFECTIONS.
acetarsol	A pentavalent arsenical compound with antiprotozoal and antihelmintic properties. Although its mechanism of action is not fully known, acetarsone may bind to protein-containing sulfhydryl groups located in the parasite, thereby forming lethal As-S bonds. This may prevent their functioning and eventually kill the parasite.
pirlimycin hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of pirlimycin, a derivative of clindamycin with a 6-membered ring replacing clindamycin's 5-membered ring. Compared to clindimycin, pirlimycin has increased activity against gram-positive bacteria, including Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase negative species of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus. This agent is primarily used in the treatment of mastitis in cattle.
iodoquinol	One of the halogenated 8-quinolinols widely used as an intestinal antiseptic, especially as an antiamebic agent. It is also used topically in other infections and may cause CNS and eye damage. It is known by very many similar trade names world-wide.
estomycin	An aminoglycoside antibacterial and antiprotozoal agent produced by species of STREPTOMYCES.
antiprotozoal agent	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
chlorochin	The prototypical antimalarial agent with a mechanism that is not well understood. It has also been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and in the systemic therapy of amebic liver abscesses.
nitroimidazole product	IMIDAZOLES having a nitro moiety.
antiprotozoan agents	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
paromomycin i	An aminoglycoside antibacterial and antiprotozoal agent produced by species of STREPTOMYCES.
antiparasitic	Drugs used to treat or prevent parasitic infections.
product containing antiprotozoal	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
arechin	The phosphate salt of chloroquine, a quinoline compound with antimalarial and anti-inflammatory properties. Chloroquine is the most widely used drug against malaria, except for those cases caused by chloroquine resistant Plasmodium falciparum. Although the mechanism of action is not fully understood, chloroquine is shown to inhibit the parasitic enzyme heme polymerase that converts the toxic heme into non-toxic hemazoin, thereby resulting in the accumulation of toxic heme within the parasite. Chloroquine may also interfere with the biosynthesis of nucleic acids.
amebicide product	Agents which are destructive to amebae, especially the parasitic species causing AMEBIASIS in man and animal.
chloroquine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of chloroquine, a synthetic quinoline with antimalarial and anti-inflammatory properties. Chloroquine is the most widely used drug against malaria, except for those cases caused by chloroquine resistant Plasmodium falciparum. Although the mechanism of action is not fully understood, chloroquine is shown to inhibit the parasitic enzyme heme polymerase that converts the toxic heme into non-toxic hemazoin, thereby resulting in the accumulation of toxic heme within the parasite. Chloroquine may also interfere with the biosynthesis of nucleic acids.
nitroimidazoles	IMIDAZOLES having a nitro moiety.
gabromycin	An aminoglycoside antibacterial and antiprotozoal agent produced by species of STREPTOMYCES.
chloroquine phosphate	The phosphate salt of chloroquine, a quinoline compound with antimalarial and anti-inflammatory properties. Chloroquine is the most widely used drug against malaria, except for those cases caused by chloroquine resistant Plasmodium falciparum. Although the mechanism of action is not fully understood, chloroquine is shown to inhibit the parasitic enzyme heme polymerase that converts the toxic heme into non-toxic hemazoin, thereby resulting in the accumulation of toxic heme within the parasite. Chloroquine may also interfere with the biosynthesis of nucleic acids.
paromomycin sulfate	The sulfate salt form of paromomycin, a structural derivative of neomycin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic with amebicidal and bactericidal effects against predominantly aerobic gram-negative bacteria. Paromomycin binds specifically to the RNA oligonucleotide at the A site of bacterial 30S ribosomes, thereby causing misreading and premature termination of translation of mRNA and inhibition of protein synthesis followed by cell death.
chloroquina	The prototypical antimalarial agent with a mechanism that is not well understood. It has also been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and in the systemic therapy of amebic liver abscesses.
khingamin	The prototypical antimalarial agent with a mechanism that is not well understood. It has also been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and in the systemic therapy of amebic liver abscesses.
amphotericin-b	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
limbs	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with a complete set of bones of the appendicular skeleton, it is partially surrounded by skin of limb. Examples: There are only four instances, right upper and lower limbs and left upper and lower limbs.
amelia of unspecified limb	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
extremities	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with a complete set of bones of the appendicular skeleton, it is partially surrounded by skin of limb. Examples: There are only four instances, right upper and lower limbs and left upper and lower limbs.
congenital absence of limb nos	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
amelia involving the lower limbs	Amelia of one or both legs. [HPO:curators]
congenital hand deformity lobster-claw	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital absence of femur	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of limb	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
tetra-amelia autosomal recessive	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
absence; femur	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
hyponychia congenita	Aplasia of the nail. [HPO:probinson]
ameloblastoma nos	An immature epithelial tumor of the JAW originating from the epithelial rests of Malassez or from other epithelial remnants of the ENAMEL from the developmental period. It is a slowly growing tumor, usually benign, but displays a marked propensity for invasive growth.
adenomatoid odontogenic tumor	A benign, slow growing neoplasm arising from tooth-forming tissues. The vast majority of cases are intraosseous and most often grow in the maxilla. It is characterized by the presence of odontogenic epithelium which is embedded in a connective tissue stroma. Local excision is curative and recurrences are very rare.
ameloblastoma	An immature epithelial tumor of the JAW originating from the epithelial rests of Malassez or from other epithelial remnants of the ENAMEL from the developmental period. It is a slowly growing tumor, usually benign, but displays a marked propensity for invasive growth.
plexiform ameloblastoma	A histologic variant of solid/multicystic ameloblastoma characterized by the presence of basal cells forming anastomosing strands and cords in a delicate stroma.
adamantinoma	An immature epithelial tumor of the JAW originating from the epithelial rests of Malassez or from other epithelial remnants of the ENAMEL from the developmental period. It is a slowly growing tumor, usually benign, but displays a marked propensity for invasive growth.
follicular ameloblastoma	A histologic variant of solid/multicystic ameloblastoma characterized by the presence of odontogenic epithelial islands in a fibrotic stroma.
odontogenic tumor	Neoplasms produced from tooth-forming tissues.
unicystic ameloblastoma	An ameloblastoma that presents as a unilocular cyst. It usually arises from the mandible.
[m]odontogenic tumour nos	Neoplasms produced from tooth-forming tissues.
ameloblast	Cylindrical epithelial cells in the innermost layer of the ENAMEL ORGAN. Their functions include contribution to the development of the dentinoenamel junction by the deposition of a layer of the matrix, thus producing the foundation for the prisms (the structural units of the DENTAL ENAMEL), and production of the matrix for the enamel prisms and interprismatic substance. (From Jablonski's Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
odontogenic tissue	The tissue that forms the tooth. It consists of the dental pulp, dentin, enamel, cementum, odontogenic epithelium, and periodontium.
peripheral ameloblastic carcinoma	A very rare ameloblastic carcinoma that originates from a pre-existing extraosseous benign ameloblastoma.
[m]ameloblastoma nos	An immature epithelial tumor of the JAW originating from the epithelial rests of Malassez or from other epithelial remnants of the ENAMEL from the developmental period. It is a slowly growing tumor, usually benign, but displays a marked propensity for invasive growth.
tooth cell	The cell of the tooth. It includes the odontoblast, cementoblast, cementocyte, and ameloblast.
granular cell ameloblastoma	A solid/multicystic ameloblastoma with follicular pattern in which the odontogenic epithelial islands contain granular cells.
ameloblastic carcinoma	A rare, cytologically malignant ameloblastoma that may metastasize.
ameloblastic carcinoma ex ameloblastoma	A very rare ameloblastic carcinoma that originates from a pre-existing benign ameloblastoma.
benign ameloblastoma	An ameloblastoma that does not recur or metastasize.
ameloblasts	Cylindrical epithelial cells in the innermost layer of the ENAMEL ORGAN. Their functions include contribution to the development of the dentinoenamel junction by the deposition of a layer of the matrix, thus producing the foundation for the prisms (the structural units of the DENTAL ENAMEL), and production of the matrix for the enamel prisms and interprismatic substance. (From Jablonski's Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
ameloblastic carcinoma-primary type	A rare, aggressive odontogenic malignant tumor that arises usually from the mandible and less frequently from the maxilla. It combines the histologic features of an ameloblastoma and carcinoma.
basal cell ameloblastoma	A solid/multicystic ameloblastoma with follicular pattern in which the odontogenic epithelial islands are composed of uniform basaloid cells.
central ameloblastic carcinoma	A very rare ameloblastic carcinoma that originates from a pre-existing intraosseous benign ameloblastoma.
amelogeneses	The elaboration of dental enamel by ameloblasts, beginning with its participation in the formation of the dentino-enamel junction to the production of the matrix for the enamel prisms and interprismatic substance. (Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992).
odontogenesis of dentin-containing tooth	The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a dentin-containing tooth over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A dentin-containing tooth is a hard, bony organ borne on the jaw or other bone of a vertebrate, and is composed mainly of dentin, a dense calcified substance, covered by a layer of enamel. [GOC:cjm, GOC:mah, GOC:mtg_sensu, PMID:10333884, PMID:15355794]
enamel mineralization	The process in which calcium salts, mainly carbonated hydroxyapatite, are deposited in tooth enamel. [GOC:BHF, GOC:mah, GOC:sl, PMID:10206335, PMID:16931858, PMID:21196346]
kohlschutter's syndrome	Ameliogenesis imperfecta, mental retardation, and epileptic seizures
verloes bourguignon syndrome	An exceedingly rare form of brachyolmia with characteristics of mild platyspondyly, broad ilia, elongated femoral necks with coxa valga, scoliosis, and short trunked short stature associated with amelogenesis imperfecta of both primary and permanent dentition.
malformation of tooth enamel	An abnormality of the dental enamel. [HPO:probinson]
ai - amelogenesis imperfecta	A clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of hereditary conditions characterized by malformed DENTAL ENAMEL, usually involving DENTAL ENAMEL HYPOPLASIA and/or TOOTH HYPOMINERALIZATION.
stimmler syndrome	Syndrome with the association of microcephaly, low birth weight and severe intellectual deficit with dwarfism, small teeth and diabetes mellitus. Two cases have been described. Biochemical tests reveal the presence of high levels of alanine in the urine and elevated alanine, pyruvate and lactate levels in the blood.
enamel	A hard thin translucent layer of calcified substance which envelops and protects the dentin of the crown of the tooth. It is the hardest substance in the body and is almost entirely composed of calcium salts. Under the microscope, it is composed of thin rods (enamel prisms) held together by cementing substance, and surrounded by an enamel sheath. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992, p286)
congenital enamel hypoplasia	A clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of hereditary conditions characterized by malformed DENTAL ENAMEL, usually involving DENTAL ENAMEL HYPOPLASIA and/or TOOTH HYPOMINERALIZATION.
dental enamel	A hard thin translucent layer of calcified substance which envelops and protects the dentin of the crown of the tooth. It is the hardest substance in the body and is almost entirely composed of calcium salts. Under the microscope, it is composed of thin rods (enamel prisms) held together by cementing substance, and surrounded by an enamel sheath. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992, p286)
enamelum	A hard thin translucent layer of calcified substance which envelops and protects the dentin of the crown of the tooth. It is the hardest substance in the body and is almost entirely composed of calcium salts. Under the microscope, it is composed of thin rods (enamel prisms) held together by cementing substance, and surrounded by an enamel sheath. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992, p286)
tooth hypoplasia	Developmental hypoplasia of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
hypoplastic teeth	Developmental hypoplasia of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
tooth formation retarded	Developmental hypoplasia of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
hypoplasia tooth	Developmental hypoplasia of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
hypoplasia of teeth	Developmental hypoplasia of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
dent enamel hypoplasia	An acquired or hereditary condition due to deficiency in the formation of tooth enamel (AMELOGENESIS). It is usually characterized by defective, thin, or malformed DENTAL ENAMEL. Risk factors for enamel hypoplasia include gene mutations, nutritional deficiencies, diseases, and environmental factors.
anomaly; teeth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
enamels	A hard thin translucent layer of calcified substance which envelops and protects the dentin of the crown of the tooth. It is the hardest substance in the body and is almost entirely composed of calcium salts. Under the microscope, it is composed of thin rods (enamel prisms) held together by cementing substance, and surrounded by an enamel sheath. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992, p286)
amenorrhea	Absence of menstruation.
luliberin	A decapeptide that stimulates the synthesis and secretion of both pituitary gonadotropins, LUTEINIZING HORMONE and FOLLICLE STIMULATING HORMONE. GnRH is produced by neurons in the septum PREOPTIC AREA of the HYPOTHALAMUS and released into the pituitary portal blood, leading to stimulation of GONADOTROPHS in the ANTERIOR PITUITARY GLAND.
amenorrhoea	Absence of menstruation.
inappropriate production of milk	Spontaneous flow of milk from the breast, unassociated with childbirth or nursing. [HPO:sdoelken]
primary amenorrhea	Abnormally late or absent menarche in a female with normal secondary sexual characteristics.
menstruation absence	Absence of menstruation.
primary physiologic amenorrhea	Abnormally late or absent menarche in a female with normal secondary sexual characteristics.
amenorrhoea nos	Absence of menstruation.
amenorrhoea secondary	Amenorrhea in the setting of the following factors: occurring after the onset of menarche; persisting for six months or more; occurring in the absence of pregnancy, breastfeeding, or menopause.
amenia	Absence of menstruation.
secondary amenorrhea	Amenorrhea in the setting of the following factors: occurring after the onset of menarche; persisting for six months or more; occurring in the absence of pregnancy, breastfeeding, or menopause.
primary amenorrhoea	Abnormally late or absent menarche in a female with normal secondary sexual characteristics.
absence of menstruation	Absence of menstruation.
menstruation; disorder	variations of menstruation or the menstrual cycle which may be indicative of disease.
lack of menses	Absence of menstruation.
ovaries	The reproductive organ (GONADS) in female animals. In vertebrates, the ovary contains two functional parts: the OVARIAN FOLLICLE for the production of female germ cells (OOGENESIS); and the endocrine cells (GRANULOSA CELLS; THECA CELLS; and LUTEAL CELLS) for the production of ESTROGENS and PROGESTERONE.
ovarian retiform sertoli-leydig cell tumor	A Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor of the ovary in which anastomosing, slit-like spaces resembling rete testis constitute at least 90% of the tumor elements. It may present with estrogenic and less often androgenic manifestations. It usually follows a benign clinical course.
cessation of menses	Absence of menstruation.
pituicytoma	An extremely rare, WHO grade I, circumscribed and slow-growing tumor that arises from the neurohypophysis or infundibulum and described in adults. It is characterized by the presence of elongated, spindle-shaped neoplastic glial cells that form storiform patterns or interlacing fascicular arrangements. Signs and symptoms include visual disturbances, headache, amenorrhea, and decreased libido.
secondary physiologic amenorrhea	Amenorrhea in the setting of the following factors: occurring after the onset of menarche; persisting for six months or more; occurring in the absence of pregnancy, breastfeeding, or menopause.
secondary amenorrhoea	Amenorrhea in the setting of the following factors: occurring after the onset of menarche; persisting for six months or more; occurring in the absence of pregnancy, breastfeeding, or menopause.
menstrual disorders	variations of menstruation or the menstrual cycle which may be indicative of disease.
abnormal menstruation	variations of menstruation or the menstrual cycle which may be indicative of disease.
menstruation disturbances	variations of menstruation or the menstrual cycle which may be indicative of disease.
amenorrhoea primary	Abnormally late or absent menarche in a female with normal secondary sexual characteristics.
menses lack of	Absence of menstruation.
female genital organ	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
amenorrhea nos	Absence of menstruation.
previous menstrual periods stop	Amenorrhea in the setting of the following factors: occurring after the onset of menarche; persisting for six months or more; occurring in the absence of pregnancy, breastfeeding, or menopause.
abnormal absence of menstruation	Absence of menstruation.
absence of	Not existing in a specified place at a specified time.
female reproductive systems	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
secondary physiologic amenorrhoea	Amenorrhea in the setting of the following factors: occurring after the onset of menarche; persisting for six months or more; occurring in the absence of pregnancy, breastfeeding, or menopause.
absence; menstruation	Absence of menstruation.
chiari frommel syndrome	A POSTPARTUM condition consists of persistent lactation (GALACTORRHEA) and AMENORRHEA in patients not BREAST FEEDING.
chiari-frommel syndrome	A POSTPARTUM condition consists of persistent lactation (GALACTORRHEA) and AMENORRHEA in patients not BREAST FEEDING.
menstruation functions	The periodic shedding of the ENDOMETRIUM and associated menstrual bleeding in the MENSTRUAL CYCLE of humans and primates. Menstruation is due to the decline in circulating PROGESTERONE, and occurs at the late LUTEAL PHASE when LUTEOLYSIS of the CORPUS LUTEUM takes place.
loss of menstrual period	Amenorrhea in the setting of the following factors: occurring after the onset of menarche; persisting for six months or more; occurring in the absence of pregnancy, breastfeeding, or menopause.
amenorrhea primary	Abnormally late or absent menarche in a female with normal secondary sexual characteristics.
menoxenia	variations of menstruation or the menstrual cycle which may be indicative of disease.
delayed menarche	Abnormally late or absent menarche in a female with normal secondary sexual characteristics.
amerindian	Denotes a person having origins in one of the indigenous peoples of North America, who lived on the continent prior to the European colonization. The term includes individuals belonging to a large number of tribes, states, and ethnic groups, many of them still enduring as communities.
american natives	a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Americas, or who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition.
american indian	Denotes a person having origins in one of the indigenous peoples of North America, who lived on the continent prior to the European colonization. The term includes individuals belonging to a large number of tribes, states, and ethnic groups, many of them still enduring as communities.
american indian race	Denotes a person having origins in one of the indigenous peoples of North America, who lived on the continent prior to the European colonization. The term includes individuals belonging to a large number of tribes, states, and ethnic groups, many of them still enduring as communities.
cdisc cdash terminology	The terminology subset that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Clinical Data Acquisition Standards Harmonization (CDASH) group.
native american	a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Americas, or who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition.
american indian or alaska native	a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Americas, or who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition.
americium	A completely man-made radioactive actinide with atomic symbol Am, and atomic number 95. Its valence can range from +3 to +6. Because of its nonmagnetic ground state, it is an excellent superconductor. It is also used in bone mineral analysis and as a radiation source for radiotherapy.
radioactive elements	Unstable elements with atomic numbers greater than 83 that exist in nature solely as radioisotopes.
bifunctional reagent	Reagents with two reactive groups, usually at opposite ends of the molecule, that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between side chains of amino acids in proteins; the locations of naturally reactive areas within proteins can thereby be identified; may also be used for other macromolecules, like glycoproteins, nucleic acids, or other.
mitomycin-x	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
fam-s	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of fluorouracil, doxorubicin, mitomycin, and streptozocin that may be used in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
mito-c	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
cross linking reagents	Reagents with two reactive groups, usually at opposite ends of the molecule, that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between side chains of amino acids in proteins; the locations of naturally reactive areas within proteins can thereby be identified; may also be used for other macromolecules, like glycoproteins, nucleic acids, or other.
mitomycin antineoplastic antibiotic	A group of methylazirinopyrroloindolediones obtained from certain Streptomyces strains. They are very toxic antibiotics used as ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS in some solid tumors. PORFIROMYCIN and MITOMYCIN are the most useful members of the group.
product containing mitomycin	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
bifunctional reagents	Reagents with two reactive groups, usually at opposite ends of the molecule, that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between side chains of amino acids in proteins; the locations of naturally reactive areas within proteins can thereby be identified; may also be used for other macromolecules, like glycoproteins, nucleic acids, or other.
c mitomycin	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
mitomycins	A group of methylazirinopyrroloindolediones obtained from certain Streptomyces strains. They are very toxic antibiotics used as ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS in some solid tumors. PORFIROMYCIN and MITOMYCIN are the most useful members of the group.
bomp chemotherapy protocol	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of mitomycin, vincristine, bleomycin, and cisplatin that may be used in the treatment of cervical cancer.
anticancer antibiotic	Chemical substances, produced by microorganisms, inhibiting or preventing the proliferation of neoplasms.
antibacterial drug	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
antineopl antibiotics	Chemical substances, produced by microorganisms, inhibiting or preventing the proliferation of neoplasms.
antitumor drug	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
mitomycin product	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
carbamate	carbamic acid, its salts or esters; contains the general formula NH2-COO-.
haemorrhagic diathesis	Mer eller mindre spontan blödning till följd av brister i blodlevringsmekanismerna (blodkoaguleringssjukdomar) eller annan störning som ger upphov till strukturella brister i blodkärlen (vaskulära hemostatiska störningar).
mitomycine c	An antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of the bi- or tri-functional ALKYLATING AGENTS causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of DNA synthesis.
neoplasm of pancreas	Tumors or cancer of the PANCREAS. Depending on the types of ISLET CELLS present in the tumors, various hormones can be secreted: GLUCAGON from PANCREATIC ALPHA CELLS; INSULIN from PANCREATIC BETA CELLS; and SOMATOSTATIN from the SOMATOSTATIN-SECRETING CELLS. Most are malignant except the insulin-producing tumors (INSULINOMA).
kidney; failure	inability of a kidney to excrete metabolites at normal plasma levels under conditions of normal loading or inability to retain electrolytes under conditions of normal intake.
crosslinking reagents	Reagents with two reactive groups, usually at opposite ends of the molecule, that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between side chains of amino acids in proteins; the locations of naturally reactive areas within proteins can thereby be identified; may also be used for other macromolecules, like glycoproteins, nucleic acids, or other.
bupivacaine	A widely used local anesthetic agent.
amides	Organic compounds containing the -CO-NH2 radical. Amides are derived from acids by replacement of -OH by -NH2 or from ammonia by the replacement of H by an acyl group. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
prilocaine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of prilocaine, an intermediate-acting local anesthetic of the amide type chemically related to lidocaine. Prilocaine hydrochloride binds to voltage-gated sodium ion channels in the neuronal membrane, thereby preventing the permeability of sodium ions. This leads to a stabilization of the neuronal membrane and inhibits depolarization and results in a reversible blockage of nerve impulse generation and propagation along nerve fibres and subsequent reversible loss of sensation.
lidocaine	A local anesthetic and cardiac depressant used as an antiarrhythmia agent. Its actions are more intense and its effects more prolonged than those of PROCAINE but its duration of action is shorter than that of BUPIVACAINE or PRILOCAINE.
ropivacaine	A drug used to control pain and to cause a temporary loss of feeling in one part of the body, during and after surgery. It is also being studied for pain control after cancer surgery. It is a type of local anesthetic.
lidocaine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt from of lidocaine, an aminoethylamide and a prototypical member of the amide class anesthetics. Lidocaine interacts with voltage-gated Na+ channels in the nerve cell membrane and blocks the transient increase in permeability of excitable membranes to Na+. This prevents the generation and conduction of nerve impulses and produces a reversible loss of sensation. Lidocaine hydrochloride also exhibits class IB antiarrhythmic effects. The agent decreases the flow of sodium ions into myocardial tissue, especially on the Purkinje network, during phase 0 of the action potential, thereby decreasing depolarization, automaticity and excitability.
mepivacaine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of mepivacaine, an amide derivative with local anesthetic properties. At the injection site, mepivacaine hydrochloride acts by binding to specific membrane sodium ion channels in the neuronal cell membranes, thereby inhibiting sodium influx. This leads to a blockage of nerve impulse conduction and results in a loss of sensation.
ropivacaine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of ropivacaine, a local anesthetic of the amide type with analgesic activity. Ropivacaine binds to voltage-gated sodium ion channels in the neuronal membrane, thereby preventing the permeability of sodium ions and resulting in. a stabilization of the neuronal membrane and inhibition of depolarization; nerve impulse generation and propagation are blocked, resulting in a reversible loss of sensation. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C52198" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C52198" NCI Thesaurus)
bupivacaine hydrochloride	A drug used to relieve pain by blocking signals at nerve endings. It is being studied in the relief of pain following surgery for cancer. It is a type of local anesthetic.
articaine	A thiophene-containing local anesthetic pharmacologically similar to MEPIVACAINE.
pyrazofurin	A nucleoside analog. Pyrazofurin potently inhibits orotidine 5'-monophosphate (OMP) decarboxylase, thereby interfering with de novo synthesis of uridine nucleotides and resulting in cytotoxicity. This agent also causes a rapid depletion of the pyrimidine deoxynucleotide pool, thereby inhibiting DNA synthesis and cell replication. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1208" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1208" NCI Thesaurus)
cyanamide	A cyanide compound which has been used as a fertilizer, defoliant and in many manufacturing processes. It often occurs as the calcium salt, sometimes also referred to as cyanamide. The citrated calcium salt is used in the treatment of alcoholism.
acetaminofén	Analgesic antipyretic derivative of acetanilide. It has weak anti-inflammatory properties and is used as a common analgesic, but may cause liver, blood cell, and kidney damage.
caprolactam	Cyclic amide of caproic acid used in manufacture of synthetic fibers of the polyamide type. Can cause local irritation.
carbamaldehyde	group of amides with the general formula of R-CONH2.
ethyl carbamate	Antineoplastic agent that is also used as a veterinary anesthetic. It has also been used as an intermediate in organic synthesis. Urethane is suspected to be a carcinogen.
granisetronum	A serotonin receptor (5HT-3 selective) antagonist that has been used as an antiemetic for cancer chemotherapy patients.
tromantadine	A cyclic amine with activity against herpes simplex virus. Tromantadine inhibits absorption of virions to cell surfaces, as well as penetration and uncoating of the virus.
meloxicam	An oxicam derivative and a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgesic activities. Unlike traditional nonselective NSAIDs, meloxicam preferentially inhibits the activity of cyclo-oxygenase II (COX-II), resulting in a decreased conversion of arachidonic acid into prostaglandin precursors. The resulting decrease in prostaglandin synthesis is responsible for the therapeutic effects of meloxicam. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C61439" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C61439" NCI Thesaurus)
remifentanil	A piperidine-propionate derivative and opioid analgesic structurally related to FENTANYL. It functions as a short-acting MU OPIOID RECEPTOR agonist, and is used as an analgesic during induction or maintenance of general anesthesia, following surgery, during childbirth, and in mechanically ventilated patients under intensive care.
product containing beta-lactam	Antibiotika obsahující v molekule beta-laktamový kruh, zejm. penicilinová antibiotika, cefalosporiny, karbapenemy a monobaktamy beta. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid	A synthetic hydroxamic acid derivative with antineoplastic activity. Vorinostat, a second generation polar-planar compound, binds to the catalytic domain of the histone deacetylases (HDACs). This allows the hydroxamic moiety to chelate zinc ion located in the catalytic pockets of HDAC, thereby inhibiting deacetylation and leading to an accumulation of both hyperacetylated histones and transcription factors. Hyperacetylation of histone proteins results in the upregulation of the cyclin-dependant kinase p21, followed by G1 arrest. Hyperacetylation of non-histone proteins such as tumor suppressor p53, alpha tubulin, and heat-shock protein 90 produces additional anti-proliferative effects. This agent also induces apoptosis and sensitizes tumor cells to cell death processes. Vorinostat crosses the blood-brain barrier. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1796" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1796" NCI Thesaurus)
nepafenac	A topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that is used in eye drops for the treatment of eye pain and swelling.
simeprevir	Oral HCV-PROTEASE INHIBITOR effective against hepatitis C virus (HCV) serine protease NS3/4A. It is used in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (Antivirals) genotype 1 infection in adults with compensated liver disease, including CIRRHOSIS.
formamide	group of amides with the general formula of R-CONH2.
hydroxyurea	An antineoplastic agent that inhibits DNA synthesis through the inhibition of ribonucleoside diphosphate reductase.
nicotinamide	An important compound functioning as a component of the coenzyme NAD. Its primary significance is in the prevention and/or cure of blacktongue and PELLAGRA. Most animals cannot manufacture this compound in amounts sufficient to prevent nutritional deficiency and it therefore must be supplemented through dietary intake.
urethan	Antineoplastic agent that is also used as a veterinary anesthetic. It has also been used as an intermediate in organic synthesis. Urethane is suspected to be a carcinogen.
granisetron	A serotonin receptor (5HT-3 selective) antagonist that has been used as an antiemetic for cancer chemotherapy patients.
tromantadin	A cyclic amine with activity against herpes simplex virus. Tromantadine inhibits absorption of virions to cell surfaces, as well as penetration and uncoating of the virus.
tocainide	An antiarrhythmic agent which exerts a potential- and frequency-dependent block of SODIUM CHANNELS.
beta-lactam	Antibiotika obsahující v molekule beta-laktamový kruh, zejm. penicilinová antibiotika, cefalosporiny, karbapenemy a monobaktamy beta. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
granisetron hydrochloride	A drug used to treat nausea and vomiting caused by cancer treatment. It is a type of serotonin receptor antagonist and a type of antiemetic.
vorinostat	A synthetic hydroxamic acid derivative with antineoplastic activity. Vorinostat, a second generation polar-planar compound, binds to the catalytic domain of the histone deacetylases (HDACs). This allows the hydroxamic moiety to chelate zinc ion located in the catalytic pockets of HDAC, thereby inhibiting deacetylation and leading to an accumulation of both hyperacetylated histones and transcription factors. Hyperacetylation of histone proteins results in the upregulation of the cyclin-dependant kinase p21, followed by G1 arrest. Hyperacetylation of non-histone proteins such as tumor suppressor p53, alpha tubulin, and heat-shock protein 90 produces additional anti-proliferative effects. This agent also induces apoptosis and sensitizes tumor cells to cell death processes. Vorinostat crosses the blood-brain barrier. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1796" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1796" NCI Thesaurus)
tocainide hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of tocainide, a primary amine analog of lidocaine exhibiting class 1b antiarrhythmic property. Tocainide hydrochloride stabilizes the neuronal membrane by reversibly binding to and blocking open and inactivated voltage-gated sodium channels. This inhibits the inward sodium current required for the initiation and conduction of impulses and reduces the excitability of myocardial cells. This agent reduces the rate of rise and amplitude, and shortens the action-potential duration (APD) in both the Purkinje and muscle fibers. Tocainide also shortens the effective refractory period (ERP) of Purkinje fibers resulting in an increased the ERP/APD ratio. Overall these effects lead to the slowing of nerve impulses and stabilization of the heartbeat.
amidine	Derivatives of oxoacids RnE(=O)OH in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =NR. Amidines include carboxamidines, sulfinamidines and phosphinamidines.
fidexaban	An orally active, synthetic, and potent inhibitor of coagulation factor Xa (activated factor X) with anticoagulant activity. Like other factor Xa inhibitors, fidexaban prevents thrombus formation.
amidines	Derivatives of oxoacids RnE(=O)OH in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =NR. Amidines include carboxamidines, sulfinamidines and phosphinamidines.
isocaramidine	An adrenergic neuron-blocking drug similar in effects to GUANETHIDINE. It is also noteworthy in being a substrate for a polymorphic cytochrome P-450 enzyme. Persons with certain isoforms of this enzyme are unable to properly metabolize this and many other clinically important drugs. They are commonly referred to as having a debrisoquin 4-hydroxylase polymorphism.
carbamidine	A strong organic base existing primarily as guanidium ions at physiological pH. It is found in the urine as a normal product of protein metabolism. It is also used in laboratory research as a protein denaturant. (From Martindale, the Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed and Merck Index, 12th ed) It is also used in the treatment of myasthenia and as a fluorescent probe in HPLC.
product containing tetryzoline	An imidazole derivative with sympathomimetic activity. Applied locally to the eye or nose, tetrahydrozoline binds to and activates alpha-adrenergic receptors, resulting in vasoconstriction and decreased nasal and ophthalmic congestion.
carbamamidine	A strong organic base existing primarily as guanidium ions at physiological pH. It is found in the urine as a normal product of protein metabolism. It is also used in laboratory research as a protein denaturant. (From Martindale, the Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed and Merck Index, 12th ed) It is also used in the treatment of myasthenia and as a fluorescent probe in HPLC.
tetryzoline hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of tetrahydrozoline, an imidazole derivative with sympathomimetic property. Applied locally to the eye or nose, tetrahydrozoline binds to and activates alpha-adrenergic receptors, resulting in vasoconstriction and decreased nasal and ophthalmic congestion.
transamidinases	Enzymes of a subclass of TRANSFERASES that catalyze the transfer of an amidino group from donor to acceptor. EC 2.1.4.
amido black	A dye used to stain proteins in electrophoretic techniques. It is used interchangeably with its acid form.
amidohydrolases	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of amide bonds and result in the addition of water to the resulting molecules.
hdac proteins	Deacetylaser som avlägsnar N-acetylgrupper från sidokedjorna till aminosyror i histoner. Några av dessa tillhör proteinfamiljen sirtuiner.
amidases	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of amide bonds and result in the addition of water to the resulting molecules.
biotinidase	An enzyme which catalyzes the release of BIOTIN from biocytin. In human, defects in the enzyme are the cause of the organic acidemia MULTIPLE CARBOXYLASE DEFICIENCY or BIOTINIDASE DEFICIENCY.
butikacin	An aminoglycoside antibiotic derived from kanamycin A, exhibiting a similar cochlear toxicity profile to that of kanamycin A.
amikacin - chemical	A broad-spectrum antibiotic derived from KANAMYCIN. It is reno- and oto-toxic like the other aminoglycoside antibiotics.
amikacin product	A broad-spectrum antibiotic derived from KANAMYCIN. It is reno- and oto-toxic like the other aminoglycoside antibiotics.
amikacinum	A broad-spectrum antibiotic derived from KANAMYCIN. It is reno- and oto-toxic like the other aminoglycoside antibiotics.
amikacin sulphate - chemical	The sulfate salt of amikacin, a broad-spectrum semi-synthetic aminoglycoside antibiotic, derived from kanamycin with antimicrobial property. Amikacin irreversibly binds to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, specifically in contact with 16S rRNA and S12 protein within the 30S subunit. This leads to interference with translational initiation complex and misreading of mRNA, thereby hampering protein synthesis and resulting in bactericidal effect. This agent is usually used in short-term treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of Gram-negative bacteria.
antibiotics	substances produced by microorganisms or biomimetics that can inhibit or suppress the growth of other microorganisms; frequently used without reference to the microbial origins of the original substance.
carbohydrate	A class of organic compounds composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a ratio of Cn(H2O)n. The largest class of organic compounds, including STARCH; GLYCOGEN; CELLULOSE; POLYSACCHARIDES; and simple MONOSACCHARIDES.
aminoglycoside drugs	any of a group of antibiotics derived from various species of Streptomyces or produced synthetically; they inhibit protein synthesis by binding with the 30S ribosomal subunit.
amikacin sulphate	The sulfate salt of amikacin, a broad-spectrum semi-synthetic aminoglycoside antibiotic, derived from kanamycin with antimicrobial property. Amikacin irreversibly binds to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, specifically in contact with 16S rRNA and S12 protein within the 30S subunit. This leads to interference with translational initiation complex and misreading of mRNA, thereby hampering protein synthesis and resulting in bactericidal effect. This agent is usually used in short-term treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of Gram-negative bacteria.
amika	A broad-spectrum antibiotic derived from KANAMYCIN. It is reno- and oto-toxic like the other aminoglycoside antibiotics.
aminoglycoside antibiotic	any of a group of antibiotics derived from various species of Streptomyces or produced synthetically; they inhibit protein synthesis by binding with the 30S ribosomal subunit.
aminoglycosides	any of a group of antibiotics derived from various species of Streptomyces or produced synthetically; they inhibit protein synthesis by binding with the 30S ribosomal subunit.
bacterial infection; unspecified site	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
burn injury	Injuries to tissues caused by contact with heat, steam, chemicals (BURNS, CHEMICAL), electricity (BURNS, ELECTRIC), or the like.
central nervous system--infections	Pathogenic infections of the brain, spinal cord, and meninges. DNA VIRUS INFECTIONS; RNA VIRUS INFECTIONS; BACTERIAL INFECTIONS; MYCOPLASMA INFECTIONS; SPIROCHAETALES INFECTIONS; fungal infections; PROTOZOAN INFECTIONS; HELMINTHIASIS; and PRION DISEASES may involve the central nervous system as a primary or secondary process.
endocarditis	Inflammation of the inner lining of the heart (ENDOCARDIUM), the continuous membrane lining the four chambers and HEART VALVES. It is often caused by microorganisms including bacteria, viruses, fungi, and rickettsiae. Left untreated, endocarditis can damage heart valves and become life-threatening.
infection klebsiella	Infections with bacteria of the genus KLEBSIELLA.
infection proteus	Infections with bacteria of the genus PROTEUS.
infection pseudomonas	Infections with bacteria of the genus PSEUDOMONAS.
respiratory infection	Invasion of the host RESPIRATORY SYSTEM by microorganisms, usually leading to pathological processes or diseases.
infectious skin diseases	Skin diseases caused by bacteria, fungi, parasites, or viruses.
staphylococcal infections	Infections with bacteria of the genus STAPHYLOCOCCUS.
operation wound; infection	Infection occurring at the site of a surgical incision.
infection of urinary tract	Inflammatory responses of the epithelium of the URINARY TRACT to microbial invasions. They are often bacterial infections with associated BACTERIURIA and PYURIA.
soft tissue infection	Infections of non-skeletal tissue, i.e., exclusive of bone, ligaments, cartilage, and fibrous tissue. The concept is usually referred to as skin and soft tissue infections and usually subcutaneous and muscle tissue are involved. The predisposing factors in anaerobic infections are trauma, ischemia, and surgery. The organisms often derive from the fecal or oral flora, particularly in wounds associated with intestinal surgery, decubitus ulcer, and human bites. (From Cecil Textbook of Medicine, 19th ed, p1688)
anti-bacterial agent	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
aminoglycoside agents	any of a group of antibiotics derived from various species of Streptomyces or produced synthetically; they inhibit protein synthesis by binding with the 30S ribosomal subunit.
bacterial disorders	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
bone diseases infectious	Bone diseases caused by pathogenic microorganisms.
burning lesions	Injuries to tissues caused by contact with heat, steam, chemicals (BURNS, CHEMICAL), electricity (BURNS, ELECTRIC), or the like.
central nervous system infection	Pathogenic infections of the brain, spinal cord, and meninges. DNA VIRUS INFECTIONS; RNA VIRUS INFECTIONS; BACTERIAL INFECTIONS; MYCOPLASMA INFECTIONS; SPIROCHAETALES INFECTIONS; fungal infections; PROTOZOAN INFECTIONS; HELMINTHIASIS; and PRION DISEASES may involve the central nervous system as a primary or secondary process.
allergic reaction to substance	Altered reactivity to an antigen, which can result in pathologic reactions upon subsequent exposure to that particular antigen.
infection due to mycobacterium species	Infections with bacteria of the genus MYCOBACTERIUM.
proteus	Infections with bacteria of the genus PROTEUS.
skin and subcutaneous tissue infections	Skin diseases caused by bacteria, fungi, parasites, or viruses.
staphylococcal infection	Infections with bacteria of the genus STAPHYLOCOCCUS.
urinary tract infections	Inflammatory responses of the epithelium of the URINARY TRACT to microbial invasions. They are often bacterial infections with associated BACTERIURIA and PYURIA.
amilorid	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
amiloride	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
proton-gated sodium channel blockers	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for ACID-SENSING SODIUM CHANNELS.
enac channel blockers	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS.
acid sensing ion channel blockers	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for ACID-SENSING SODIUM CHANNELS.
amipramidin	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
amiloride hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of amiloride, a synthetic pyrazine derivative with antikaliuretic and diuretic properties. Amiloride inhibits sodium channels located in the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney, thereby preventing the absorption of sodium and increasing its excretion along with water, to produce naturesis. In response to the hypernatremic conditions in the kidney, the plasma membrane becomes hyperpolarized and electrochemical forces are reduced, which then prevents the excretion of potassium and hydrogen into the lumen.
asic channel blockers	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for ACID-SENSING SODIUM CHANNELS.
amipramidine	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
pyrazine	A heterocyclic aromatic organic compound with the chemical formula C4H4N2.
product containing amiloride	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
pyrazines	A heterocyclic aromatic organic compound with the chemical formula C4H4N2.
suppression of urinary secretion	Absence of urine formation. It is usually associated with complete bilateral ureteral (URETER) obstruction, complete lower urinary tract obstruction, or unilateral ureteral obstruction when a solitary kidney is present.
amipramizide	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
[d]ascites	Accumulation or retention of free fluid within the peritoneal cavity.
diabetes with renal manifestations	KIDNEY injuries associated with diabetes mellitus and affecting KIDNEY GLOMERULUS; ARTERIOLES; KIDNEY TUBULES; and the interstitium. Clinical signs include persistent PROTEINURIA, from microalbuminuria progressing to ALBUMINURIA of greater than 300 mg/24 h, leading to reduced GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE and END-STAGE RENAL DISEASE.
allergic reaction to drug	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
heart weaknesses	inability of the heart to pump blood at an adequate rate to fill tissue metabolic requirements or the ability to do so only at an elevated filling pressure.
hypopotassaemia syndrome	Abnormally low potassium concentration in the blood. It may result from potassium loss by renal secretion or by the gastrointestinal route, as by vomiting or diarrhea. It may be manifested clinically by neuromuscular disorders ranging from weakness to paralysis, by electrocardiographic abnormalities (depression of the T wave and elevation of the U wave), by renal disease, and by gastrointestinal disorders. (Dorland, 27th ed)
hypokalemia	Abnormally low potassium concentration in the blood. It may result from potassium loss by renal secretion or by the gastrointestinal route, as by vomiting or diarrhea. It may be manifested clinically by neuromuscular disorders ranging from weakness to paralysis, by electrocardiographic abnormalities (depression of the T wave and elevation of the U wave), by renal disease, and by gastrointestinal disorders. (Dorland, 27th ed)
triamterene	A pteridinetriamine compound that inhibits SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS.
amiloride hcl	The hydrochloride salt of amiloride, a synthetic pyrazine derivative with antikaliuretic and diuretic properties. Amiloride inhibits sodium channels located in the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney, thereby preventing the absorption of sodium and increasing its excretion along with water, to produce naturesis. In response to the hypernatremic conditions in the kidney, the plasma membrane becomes hyperpolarized and electrochemical forces are reduced, which then prevents the excretion of potassium and hydrogen into the lumen.
amiloride product	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
sodium channel blocker	En klass läkemedel, vars verkan är att blockera natriumtillförseln genom cellmembran. Stängning av natriumkanalerna sänker hastigheten och amplituden för snabb, inledande depolarisering, minskar cellens retbarhet och ledningshastighet.
asic blockers	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for ACID-SENSING SODIUM CHANNELS.
epithelial sodium channel blockers	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS.
asic inhibitors	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for ACID-SENSING SODIUM CHANNELS.
epithelial sodium ion channel blockers	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS.
epithelial sodium channel inhibitors	A subclass of sodium channel blockers that are specific for EPITHELIAL SODIUM CHANNELS.
amilorida	A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS. This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions. Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
aminacrine	A highly fluorescent anti-infective dye used clinically as a topical antiseptic and experimentally as a mutagen, due to its interaction with DNA. It is also used as an intracellular pH indicator.
aminoacrine	A highly fluorescent anti-infective dye used clinically as a topical antiseptic and experimentally as a mutagen, due to its interaction with DNA. It is also used as an intracellular pH indicator.
aminoacridine	A highly fluorescent anti-infective dye used clinically as a topical antiseptic and experimentally as a mutagen, due to its interaction with DNA. It is also used as an intracellular pH indicator.
acridinamine	A highly fluorescent anti-infective dye used clinically as a topical antiseptic and experimentally as a mutagen, due to its interaction with DNA. It is also used as an intracellular pH indicator.
topical antiinfective agents	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
fluorescent dye/probe	Chemicals that emit light after excitation by light. The wave length of the emitted light is usually longer than that of the incident light. Fluorochromes are substances that cause fluorescence in other substances, i.e., dyes used to mark or label other compounds with fluorescent tags.
antiinfective agents topical	Substances used on humans and other animals that destroy harmful microorganisms or inhibit their activity. They are distinguished from DISINFECTANTS, which are used on inanimate objects.
aminoacridines	A highly fluorescent anti-infective dye used clinically as a topical antiseptic and experimentally as a mutagen, due to its interaction with DNA. It is also used as an intracellular pH indicator.
amination	The creation of an amine. It can be produced by the addition of an amino group to an organic compound or reduction of a nitro group.
deamination	The removal of an amino group (NH2) from a chemical compound.
amine	A group of compounds derived from ammonia by substituting organic radicals for the hydrogens. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
mannich base	Ketonic amines prepared from the condensation of a ketone with formaldehyde and ammonia or a primary or secondary amine. A Mannich base can act as the equivalent of an alpha,beta unsaturated ketone in synthesis or can be reduced to form physiologically active amino alcohols.
amines	A group of compounds derived from ammonia by substituting organic radicals for the hydrogens. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
guanidine	A strong organic base existing primarily as guanidium ions at physiological pH. It is found in the urine as a normal product of protein metabolism. It is also used in laboratory research as a protein denaturant. (From Martindale, the Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed and Merck Index, 12th ed) It is also used in the treatment of myasthenia and as a fluorescent probe in HPLC.
aniline	compounds containing a benzene ring and an amine group.
cyproheptadine	A serotonin antagonist and a histamine H1 blocker used as antipruritic, appetite stimulant, antiallergic, and for the post-gastrectomy dumping syndrome, etc.
beta mercaptoethylamine	A mercaptoethylamine compound that is endogenously derived from the COENZYME A degradative pathway. The fact that cysteamine is readily transported into LYSOSOMES where it reacts with CYSTINE to form cysteine-cysteamine disulfide and CYSTEINE has led to its use in CYSTINE DEPLETING AGENTS for the treatment of CYSTINOSIS.
diphenylamine	In humans it may be irritating to mucous membranes. Methemoglobinemia has been produced experimentally. In veterinary use, it is one of active ingredients in topical agents for prevention and treatment of screwworm infestation. An indicator in tests for nitrate poisoning.
alpha blockers phenoxybenzamine	An alpha-adrenergic antagonist with long duration of action. It has been used to treat hypertension and as a peripheral vasodilator.
polyamine	Amine compounds that consist of carbon chains or rings containing two or more primary amino groups.
methylamine	CH3NH2; flammable, colorless gas used as a chemical intermediate.
selegiline hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of selegiline, a levorotatory acetylenic derivative of phenethylamine with antiparkinsonian effect. As a selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, selegiline has the greatest affinity for type B MAO, found mainly in the brain. Selegiline is converted by MAO B to an active moiety, which binds irreversibly at the active site of the enzyme's cofactor FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide) molecule. This prevents the oxidative deamination of catecholamines and serotonin by MAO B, and leads to an increase in these neurotransmitters' activities resulting in improved motor function. In addition, this agent may inhibit re-uptake of dopamine by the neuron and prolong dopamine activity.
idelalisib	An orally bioavailable, small molecule inhibitor of the delta isoform of the 110 kDa catalytic subunit of class I phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) with potential immunomodulating and antineoplastic activities. Idelalisib inhibits the production of the second messenger phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3), preventing the activation of the PI3K signaling pathway and inhibiting tumor cell proliferation, motility, and survival. Unlike other isoforms of PI3K, PI3K-delta is expressed primarily in hematopoietic lineages. The targeted inhibition of PI3K-delta is designed to preserve PI3K signaling in normal, non-neoplastic cells.
clomifene product	A triphenyl ethylene stilbene derivative which is an estrogen agonist or antagonist depending on the target tissue. Note that ENCLOMIPHENE and ZUCLOMIPHENE are the (E) and (Z) isomers of Clomiphene respectively.
mercaptamine	A mercaptoethylamine compound that is endogenously derived from the COENZYME A degradative pathway. The fact that cysteamine is readily transported into LYSOSOMES where it reacts with CYSTINE to form cysteine-cysteamine disulfide and CYSTEINE has led to its use in CYSTINE DEPLETING AGENTS for the treatment of CYSTINOSIS.
polyamines	Amine compounds that consist of carbon chains or rings containing two or more primary amino groups.
selegiline	A selective, irreversible inhibitor of Type B monoamine oxidase that is used for the treatment of newly diagnosed patients with PARKINSON DISEASE, and for the treatment of depressive disorders. The compound without isomeric designation is Deprenyl.
trimetazidine	A vasodilator used in angina of effort or ischemic heart disease.
naftifine	A topical, synthetic allylamine derivate similar to terbinafine with broad-spectrum antifungal activity. Naftifine can be fungicidal or fungistatic depending on the concentration and the organisms involved.
toremifene	A first generation selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). Like TAMOXIFEN, it is an estrogen agonist for bone tissue and cholesterol metabolism but is antagonistic on mammary and uterine tissue.
toremifene citrate	The citrate salt of a nonsteroidal triphenylethylene antiestrogen. Chemically related to tamoxifen, toremifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). This agent binds competitively to estrogen receptors, thereby interfering with estrogen activity. Toremifene also has intrinsic estrogenic properties, which is manifested depending on the tissue or species. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1756" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1756" NCI Thesaurus)
selegiline hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of selegiline, a levorotatory acetylenic derivative of phenethylamine with antiparkinsonian effect. As a selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, selegiline has the greatest affinity for type B MAO, found mainly in the brain. Selegiline is converted by MAO B to an active moiety, which binds irreversibly at the active site of the enzyme's cofactor FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide) molecule. This prevents the oxidative deamination of catecholamines and serotonin by MAO B, and leads to an increase in these neurotransmitters' activities resulting in improved motor function. In addition, this agent may inhibit re-uptake of dopamine by the neuron and prolong dopamine activity.
chlorisondamine	A nicotinic antagonist used primarily as a ganglionic blocker in animal research. It has been used as an antihypertensive agent but has been supplanted by more specific drugs in most clinical applications.
amino acid chloromethyl ketones	Inhibitors of SERINE ENDOPEPTIDASES and sulfhydryl group-containing enzymes. They act as alkylating agents and are known to interfere in the translation process.
protein synthesis inhibitor	Compounds which inhibit the synthesis of proteins. They are usually ANTI-BACTERIAL AGENTS or toxins. Mechanism of the action of inhibition includes the interruption of peptide-chain elongation, the blocking the A site of ribosomes, the misreading of the genetic code or the prevention of the attachment of oligosaccharide side chains to glycoproteins.
protein syn inhib	Compounds which inhibit the synthesis of proteins. They are usually ANTI-BACTERIAL AGENTS or toxins. Mechanism of the action of inhibition includes the interruption of peptide-chain elongation, the blocking the A site of ribosomes, the misreading of the genetic code or the prevention of the attachment of oligosaccharide side chains to glycoproteins.
serine proteinase antagonist	Exogenous or endogenous compounds which inhibit SERINE ENDOPEPTIDASES.
amino-acid disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
histidinemia	autosomal recessive aminoacidopathy due to deficiency of histidine ammonia-lyase; characterized by accumulation of histidine in serum and urinary excretion of histidine and metabolites, but is usually benign; may cause mild central nervous system dysfunction.
amino-acid metabolism disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
sarcos	An elevated plasma concentration of sarcosine. [HPO:gcarletti]
amino acid metabolism disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
isovaleric acidemia	autosomal recessive aminoacidopathy due to deficiency of isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase, with elevated plasma isovaleric acid and urinary isovaleric acid and isovalerylglycine, causing a characteristic odor of sweaty feet; clinical signs include severe acidosis and ketosis, lethargy, convulsions, pernicious vomiting, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and pancytopenia.
methylmalonic acidemia	autosomal recessive aminoacidopathy characterized by an excess of methylmalonic acid in the blood and urine, with metabolic ketoacidosis, hyperglycinemia, hyperglycinuria and hyperammonemia; results from defects that cause deficiencies of methylmalonyl-CoA mutase.
acid amino disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
amino acidopathy	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
glutathione synthetase deficiency	An autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutation(s) in the GSS gene, encoding glutathione synthetase. Mutation(s) in the same gene is causative in hemolytic anemia due to glutathione synthetase deficiency, with the more severe condition causing elevated urinary concentrations of 5-oxoproline and central nervous system damage in addition to hemolytic anemia.
disorder; amino-acid metabolism	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
richards-rundle syndrome	An extremely rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive spinocerebellar ataxia, sensorineural hearing loss, and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism associated with additional neurological manifestations (such as peripheral muscle wasting, nystagmus, intellectual disability or dementia) and ketoaciduria.
aa metab dis inborn	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
hyperlysinemia	En grupp ärftliga ämnesomsättningsrubbningar som ger förhöjda halter av lysin i blodet. Brist på enzymerna alfaaminoadipin-semialdehyddehydrogenas och sackaropindehydrogenas sätts i samband med hyperlysinemi. Till de kliniska kännetecknen hör mental funktionsnedsättning, kräkningar, hypotoni, trötthet, diarré och försenad utveckling.
acids amino disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
congenital amino acidopathy	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
hereditary tyrosinemias	group of disorders which have in common elevations of tyrosine in the blood and urine secondary to an enzyme deficiency.
unspecified disorder of amino-acid metabolism	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
disorder of amino acid metabolism	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
amino-acid metabolic disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
aminoacidopathy	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
disorder of metabolism nos	Generic term for diseases caused by an abnormal metabolic process. It can be congenital due to inherited enzyme abnormality (METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS) or acquired due to disease of an endocrine organ or failure of a metabolically important organ such as the liver. (Stedman, 26th ed)
acid amino disorders metabolism	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
lipid metabolism disorder	Pathological conditions resulting from abnormal anabolism or catabolism of lipids in the body.
amino-acid; metabolic disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
cystine diatheses	A metabolic disease characterized by the defective transport of CYSTINE across the lysosomal membrane due to mutation of a membrane protein cystinosin. This results in cystine accumulation and crystallization in the cells causing widespread tissue damage. In the KIDNEY, nephropathic cystinosis is a common cause of RENAL FANCONI SYNDROME.
inborn amino acidopathy	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
organic acid metabolism disorder	An inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of any acidic compound containing carbon in a covalent linkage.
disorder; amino-acid	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
inborn err aa metab	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
carbamyl-phosphate synthetase i deficiency disease	En rubbning i ureacykeln som visar sig i barndomen som slöhet, kräkningar, krampanfall, muskelspänningar, onormala ögonrörelser och förhöjda halter av serumammoniak. Sjukdomen beror på nedsatt verkan av karbamoylfosfatsyntas (ammoniak) i levermitokondrierna.
asnsd	A rare genetic neurometabolic disorder with characteristics of severe progressive microcephaly, severe to profound global development delay, intellectual disability, seizures (typically tonic and/or myoclonic and frequently intractable), hyperekplexia and axial hypotonia with appendicular spasticity, as well as hyperreflexia, dyskinetic quadriplegia and abnormal brain morphology (cerebral atrophy with variable additional features including ventriculomegaly, pons and/or cerebellar hypoplasia, simplified gyral pattern and delayed myelination). Cortical blindness, feeding difficulties and respiratory insufficiency may also be associated. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ASNS gene on chromosome 7q21.
amino acid disorder	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
organs system	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
asparagine synthetase deficiency	A rare genetic neurometabolic disorder with characteristics of severe progressive microcephaly, severe to profound global development delay, intellectual disability, seizures (typically tonic and/or myoclonic and frequently intractable), hyperekplexia and axial hypotonia with appendicular spasticity, as well as hyperreflexia, dyskinetic quadriplegia and abnormal brain morphology (cerebral atrophy with variable additional features including ventriculomegaly, pons and/or cerebellar hypoplasia, simplified gyral pattern and delayed myelination). Cortical blindness, feeding difficulties and respiratory insufficiency may also be associated. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the ASNS gene on chromosome 7q21.
amino acidopathies	Disorders affecting amino acid metabolism. The majority of these disorders are inherited and present in the neonatal period with metabolic disturbances (e.g., ACIDOSIS) and neurologic manifestations. They are present at birth, although they may not become symptomatic until later in life.
dis urea cycle metabol	inherited errors in the metabolic reactions occurring in the liver that convert ammonia to urea, resulting from inborn genetic mutations.
disorder of organic acid metabolism	An inherited disorder that affects the metabolism of any acidic compound containing carbon in a covalent linkage.
metabolic disorder; nucleotide with anemia	A group of hemolytic anemias that result from either the deficiency or overproduction of several enzymes involved in metabolizing nucleotides.
protein sequencing	The order of amino acids as they occur in a polypeptide chain. This is referred to as the primary structure of proteins. It is of fundamental importance in determining PROTEIN CONFORMATION.
rgd peptide	A consensus tripeptide that is recognized by and for binding to proteins of the integrin family, including many cell adhesion molecules. The one-letter codes for arginine - glycine - aspartic acid. This motif can be found in proteins of the extracellular matrix and it is recognized by different members of the integrin family. The structure of the tenth type III module of fibronectin has shown that the RGD motif lies on a flexible loop.
amino acid sequence	The order of amino acids as they occur in a polypeptide chain. This is referred to as the primary structure of proteins. It is of fundamental importance in determining PROTEIN CONFORMATION.
peptide signal sequences	N-terminal, hydrophobic sequences which mediate the attachment of newly translated polypeptide chains to intracellular membranes; in some membrane proteins the signal peptide remains as a permanent anchor, while in secretory proteins it is cleaved.
primary protein structures	The order of amino acids as they occur in a polypeptide chain. This is referred to as the primary structure of proteins. It is of fundamental importance in determining PROTEIN CONFORMATION.
nls peptide	Korta, huvudsakligen basiska aminosyrasekvenser som identifierats som kärnimportsignalämnen för vissa proteiner. Dessa sekvenser tros samverka med specifika receptorer vid kärnporerna.
mitochondrial targeting signal	An amino acid sequence that directs the post-translational transport of a protein to the mitochondria. The sequence contains an alternating pattern of hydrophobic and positively charged amino acids.
protein sequence	The order of amino acids as they occur in a polypeptide chain. This is referred to as the primary structure of proteins. It is of fundamental importance in determining PROTEIN CONFORMATION.
monobasic proteolytic cleavage site	A site on a protein that is a target for enzymatic cleavage, where the residue on the amino terminal side of the cleavage site is a basic amino acid that is not adjacent to other basic amino acids.
basolateral sorting signal	The polymeric immunoglobulin receptor is a model system to study protein traffic in epithelial cells. This receptor travels first to the basolateral surface where it can bind polymeric IgA or IgM. The receptor is then endocytosed and delivered to endosomes. The receptor is sorted into transcytotic vesicles which are exocytosed at the apical surface. The 103 amino acid cytoplasmic domain of the receptor contains several sorting signals. The 17 residues closest to the membrane are an autonomous signal for basolateral sorting. For endocytosis there are two signals, both of which contain tyrosines. Finally, transcytosis is signaled by serine phosphorylation. (From PubMed PMID1813030 and NCI)
transit domain	The N-terminal sequence of a protein that is required to direct the localization of a cytoplasmic protein to a subcellular membrane-bound organelle.
seq amino acid	The order of amino acids as they occur in a polypeptide chain. This is referred to as the primary structure of proteins. It is of fundamental importance in determining PROTEIN CONFORMATION.
protein structure	characteristic shape of a protein, including the secondary, supersecondary (motifs), tertiary (domains) and quaternary structure of the peptide chain, as well as the number, type and location of bonds.
fda structured product labeling terminology	Terminology used in the framework of the Structured Product Labeling documents.
seq data mol	Descriptions of specific amino acid, carbohydrate, or nucleotide sequences which have appeared in the published literature and/or are deposited in and maintained by databanks such as GENBANK, European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), National Biomedical Research Foundation (NBRF), or other sequence repositories.
aa seq	The order of amino acids as they occur in a polypeptide chain. This is referred to as the primary structure of proteins. It is of fundamental importance in determining PROTEIN CONFORMATION.
amino acid seq	The order of amino acids as they occur in a polypeptide chain. This is referred to as the primary structure of proteins. It is of fundamental importance in determining PROTEIN CONFORMATION.
pyridinoline	A non-reducible crosslinker for collagen. This compound is fluorescent and is found in mature bone and cartilage collagens. Pyridinoline found in the blood can be an indicator of bone degradation.
amino acid	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
aspartic acid	One of the non-essential amino acids commonly occurring in the L-form. It is found in animals and plants, especially in sugar cane and sugar beets. It may be a neurotransmitter.
carnitine	A constituent of STRIATED MUSCLE and LIVER. It is an amino acid derivative and an essential cofactor for fatty acid metabolism.
isoleucina	An essential branched-chain aliphatic amino acid found in many proteins. It is an isomer of LEUCINE. It is important in hemoglobin synthesis and regulation of blood sugar and energy levels.
leucine	An essential branched-chain amino acid important for hemoglobin formation.
methionine	A sulfur-containing essential L-amino acid that is important in many body functions.
l-serine	A non-essential amino acid occurring in natural form as the L-isomer. It is synthesized from GLYCINE or THREONINE. It is involved in the biosynthesis of PURINES; PYRIMIDINES; and other amino acids.
tauphon	A conditionally essential nutrient, important during mammalian development. It is present in milk but is isolated mostly from ox bile and strongly conjugates bile acids.
amino acid preparations	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
valine	A branched-chain essential amino acid that has stimulant activity. It promotes muscle growth and tissue repair. It is a precursor in the penicillin biosynthetic pathway.
alanylglutamine	A nutritional supplement containing a stable, water-soluble dipeptide comprised of the amino acids L-glutamine and L-alanine, with potential protective and absorption enhancing activities. Upon oral or enteral administration, alanylglutamine works locally in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract to both protect the integrity of the intestinal mucosa and maintain intestinal barrier functions. This reduces bacterial translocation, the risk of infection, infection-induced inflammatory damage and infection-associated symptoms, such as diarrhea, dehydration, malabsorption and electrolyte imbalances. Alanylglutamine also increases absorption of other chemicals, enhances epithelial repair, and inhibits apoptosis due to cellular damage, and stimulates cellular proliferation. Altogether, this improves absorption of nutrients, decreases weight loss, reduces diarrhea, decreases the risk of GI-associated infections and improves recovery. Upon absorption, alanylglutamine may also help inhibit muscle protein catabolism.
product containing amino acid	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
piperidic acid	The most common inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system.
glutamine	A non-essential amino acid present abundantly throughout the body and is involved in many metabolic processes. It is synthesized from GLUTAMIC ACID and AMMONIA. It is the principal carrier of NITROGEN in the body and is an important energy source for many cells.
l-histidine	An essential amino acid that is required for the production of HISTAMINE.
l-leucine	An essential branched-chain amino acid important for hemoglobin formation.
phenylalanine	An essential aromatic amino acid that is a precursor of MELANIN; DOPAMINE; noradrenalin (NOREPINEPHRINE), and THYROXINE.
serine	A non-essential amino acid occurring in natural form as the L-isomer. It is synthesized from GLYCINE or THREONINE. It is involved in the biosynthesis of PURINES; PYRIMIDINES; and other amino acids.
para-tyrosine	A non-essential amino acid. In animals it is synthesized from PHENYLALANINE. It is also the precursor of EPINEPHRINE; THYROID HORMONES; and melanin.
glutamic acid	A non-essential amino acid naturally occurring in the L-form. Glutamic acid is the most common excitatory neurotransmitter in the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
parenteral nutrition solutions	Specialized solutions for PARENTERAL NUTRITION. They may contain a variety of MICRONUTRIENTS; VITAMINS; AMINO ACIDS; CARBOHYDRATES; LIPIDS; and SALTS.
asn - asparagine	A non-essential amino acid that is involved in the metabolic control of cell functions in nerve and brain tissue. It is biosynthesized from ASPARTIC ACID and AMMONIA by asparagine synthetase. (From Concise Encyclopedia Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 3rd ed)
l-citrulline	amino acid, C6H13N3O3, originally isolated from watermelon, that is produced as an intermediate in the conversion of ornithine to arginine during urea formation in the liver; chemical name L-ornithine, N5-(aminocarbonyl).
cystathionine	Sulfur-containing amino acid formed as an intermediate in the conversion of METHIONINE to CYSTEINE.
l-cystine	A covalently linked dimeric nonessential amino acid formed by the oxidation of CYSTEINE. Two molecules of cysteine are joined together by a disulfide bridge to form cystine.
l-glutamine	A non-essential amino acid present abundantly throughout the body and is involved in many metabolic processes. It is synthesized from GLUTAMIC ACID and AMMONIA. It is the principal carrier of NITROGEN in the body and is an important energy source for many cells.
amino acid product	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
isoleucine	An essential branched-chain aliphatic amino acid found in many proteins. It is an isomer of LEUCINE. It is important in hemoglobin synthesis and regulation of blood sugar and energy levels.
aa - amino acid	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
l-threonine	An essential amino acid occurring naturally in the L-form, which is the active form. It is found in eggs, milk, gelatin, and other proteins.
l-valine	A branched-chain essential amino acid that has stimulant activity. It promotes muscle growth and tissue repair. It is a precursor in the penicillin biosynthetic pathway.
measurement of amino acid	The measurement of the amount of amino acids in a biologic specimen.
arginine tests	The determination of the amount of arginine present in a sample.
histidine measurement	The determination of the amount of histidine present in a sample.
aminoacids	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
lysine measurement	The determination of the amount of lysine present in a sample.
aminoacids essential	Amino acids that are not synthesized by the human body in amounts sufficient to carry out physiological functions. They are obtained from dietary foodstuffs.
sulfur aminoacid	any aminoacid containing sulfur.
aib - aminoisobutyric acid	A group of compounds that are derivatives of the amino acid 2-amino-2-methylpropanoic acid.
delta-aminolevulinic acid	A compound produced from succinyl-CoA and GLYCINE as an intermediate in heme synthesis. It is used as a PHOTOCHEMOTHERAPY for actinic KERATOSIS.
carnosine	A naturally occurring dipeptide neuropeptide found in muscles.
ketorolac tromethamine	Ett derivat av pyrrolizinkarboxylsyra som är strukturellt besläktat med indometacin. Det tillhör gruppen icke-steroida antiinflammatoriska medel (NSAID) och används för postoperativ smärtlindring och hindrar cyklooxygenasverkan.
ketorolac	A pyrrolizine carboxylic acid derivative structurally related to INDOMETHACIN. It is an NSAID and is used principally for its analgesic activity. (From Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 31st ed)
neutral amino acids	Aminosyror med oladdade R-grupper eller sidokedjor.
acids amino nonessential	Amino acid which can be readily made by the human body in sufficient amounts.
macimorelin	An orally available synthetic mimetic of the growth hormone (GH) secretagogue ghrelin with potential anti-cachexia activity. Upon oral administration, macimorelin mimics endogenous ghrelin by stimulating appetite and binds to the growth hormone secretagogue receptor GHSR in the central nervous system, thereby mimicking the GH-releasing effects of ghrelin from the pituitary gland. Stimulation of GH secretion increases insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) levels which may further stimulate protein synthesis. In addition, ghrelin reduces the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, which may play a direct role in cancer-related loss of appetite.
amnoacid	The measurement of the amount of amino acids in a biologic specimen.
amino acid-containing product	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
urine delta aminolaevulinic acid level	The determination of the amount of delta aminolevulinate present in a sample.
phenylalanine test	The measurement of the amount of phenylalanine in a biologic specimen.
low tyrosine diet	Decrease in tyrosine content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of tyrosine for the individual.
increased tyrosine diet	Increase in tyrosine content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of tyrosine for the individual.
increased threonine diet	Increase in threonine content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of threonine for the individual.
decreased isoleucine diet	Decrease in isoleucine content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of isoleucine for the individual.
decreased glutamine diet	Decrease in glutamine content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of glutamine for the individual.
valine modified diet	Increase or decrease in valine content of the diet.
lysine modified diet	Increase or decrease in lysine content of the diet.
increased homocysteine diet	Increase in foods and nutrients which positively affect (improve) serum homocysteine.
histidine modified diet	Increase or decrease in histidine content of the diet.
glutamine modified diet	Increase or decrease in glutamine content of the diet.
arginine modified diet	Increase or decrease in arginine content of the diet.
carbocisteine	A compound formed when iodoacetic acid reacts with sulfhydryl groups in proteins. It has been used as an anti-infective nasal spray with mucolytic and expectorant action.
glycine	A non-essential amino acid. It is found primarily in gelatin and silk fibroin and used therapeutically as a nutrient. It is also a fast inhibitory neurotransmitter.
product containing lysine	An essential amino acid. It is often added to animal feed.
l-methionine	A sulfur-containing essential L-amino acid that is important in many body functions.
methyldopa	An alpha-2 adrenergic agonist that has both central and peripheral nervous system effects. Its primary clinical use is as an antihypertensive agent.
beta-thiovaline	3-Mercapto-D-valine. The most characteristic degradation product of the penicillin antibiotics. It is used as an antirheumatic and as a chelating agent in Wilson's disease.
l-phenylalanine	An essential aromatic amino acid that is a precursor of MELANIN; DOPAMINE; noradrenalin (NOREPINEPHRINE), and THYROXINE.
taufon	A conditionally essential nutrient, important during mammalian development. It is present in milk but is isolated mostly from ox bile and strongly conjugates bile acids.
tyrosine	A non-essential amino acid. In animals it is synthesized from PHENYLALANINE. It is also the precursor of EPINEPHRINE; THYROID HORMONES; and melanin.
vinyl gamma-aminobutyric acid	An analogue of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. It is an irreversible inhibitor of 4-AMINOBUTYRATE TRANSAMINASE, the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID and is used as an anticonvulsant. (From Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 31st ed)
bromfenac	A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities. Upon ophthalmic administration, bromfenac binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclooxygenase II (COX II), an enzyme which converts arachidonic acid to cyclic endoperoxides, precursors of prostaglandins (PG). By inhibiting PG formation, bromfenac is able to inhibit PG-induced inflammation, thereby preventing vasodilation, leukocytosis, disruption of the blood-aqueous humor barrier, an increase in vascular permeability and an increase in intraocular pressure (IOP).
gabapentin	A cyclohexane-gamma-aminobutyric acid derivative that is used for the treatment of PARTIAL SEIZURES; NEURALGIA; and RESTLESS LEGS SYNDROME.
l-glutamic acid	A non-essential amino acid naturally occurring in the L-form. Glutamic acid is the most common excitatory neurotransmitter in the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
histidine	An essential amino acid that is required for the production of HISTAMINE.
l-proline	A non-essential amino acid that is synthesized from GLUTAMIC ACID. It is an essential component of COLLAGEN and is important for proper functioning of joints and tendons.
threonine	An essential amino acid occurring naturally in the L-form, which is the active form. It is found in eggs, milk, gelatin, and other proteins.
carbocysteine	A compound formed when iodoacetic acid reacts with sulfhydryl groups in proteins. It has been used as an anti-infective nasal spray with mucolytic and expectorant action.
citrulline	amino acid, C6H13N3O3, originally isolated from watermelon, that is produced as an intermediate in the conversion of ornithine to arginine during urea formation in the liver; chemical name L-ornithine, N5-(aminocarbonyl).
penicillamine	3-Mercapto-D-valine. The most characteristic degradation product of the penicillin antibiotics. It is used as an antirheumatic and as a chelating agent in Wilson's disease.
phenylalaninum	An essential aromatic amino acid that is a precursor of MELANIN; DOPAMINE; noradrenalin (NOREPINEPHRINE), and THYROXINE.
product containing bromfenac	A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities. Upon ophthalmic administration, bromfenac binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclooxygenase II (COX II), an enzyme which converts arachidonic acid to cyclic endoperoxides, precursors of prostaglandins (PG). By inhibiting PG formation, bromfenac is able to inhibit PG-induced inflammation, thereby preventing vasodilation, leukocytosis, disruption of the blood-aqueous humor barrier, an increase in vascular permeability and an increase in intraocular pressure (IOP).
pregabalin	A 3-isobutyl derivative of gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) with anti-convulsant, anti-epileptic, anxiolytic, and analgesic activities. Although the exact mechanism of action is unknown, pregabalin selectively binds to alpha2delta (A2D) subunits of presynaptic voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) located in the central nervous system (CNS). Binding of pregabalin to VDCC A2D subunits prevents calcium influx and the subsequent calcium-dependent release of various neurotransmitters, including glutamate, norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, and substance P, from the presynaptic nerve terminals of hyperexcited neurons; synaptic transmission is inhibited and neuronal excitability is diminished. Pregabalin does not bind directly to GABA-A or GABA-B receptors and does not alter GABA uptake or degradation. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C64625" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C64625" NCI Thesaurus)
acids amino branch chained	Amino acids which have a branched carbon chain.
essential aminoacid	Amino acids that are not synthesized by the human body in amounts sufficient to carry out physiological functions. They are obtained from dietary foodstuffs.
aminolevulinic acid	A compound produced from succinyl-CoA and GLYCINE as an intermediate in heme synthesis. It is used as a PHOTOCHEMOTHERAPY for actinic KERATOSIS.
anserine	A dipeptide containing BETA-ALANINE.
ademetionine	Physiologic methyl radical donor involved in enzymatic transmethylation reactions and present in all living organisms. It possesses anti-inflammatory activity and has been used in treatment of chronic liver disease. (From Merck, 11th ed)
taurineold	A conditionally essential nutrient, important during mammalian development. It is present in milk but is isolated mostly from ox bile and strongly conjugates bile acids.
vigabatrin	An analogue of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. It is an irreversible inhibitor of 4-AMINOBUTYRATE TRANSAMINASE, the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID and is used as an anticonvulsant. (From Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 31st ed)
ketorolac product	A pyrrolizine carboxylic acid derivative structurally related to INDOMETHACIN. It is an NSAID and is used principally for its analgesic activity. (From Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 31st ed)
multi-amino acid injection	A concentrated dietary supplement for injection containing the essential amino acids leucine, isoleucine, lysine, valine, phenylalanine, histidine, threonine, methionine and tryptophan as well as the non-essential amino acids alanine, arginine, glycine, proline, serine and tyrosine, with potential anabolic and anti-catabolic activities. Upon dilution and intravenous infusion of the amino acid nutritional supplement, the amino acids serve as protein building blocks, promote protein synthesis in muscle cells and prevent protein breakdown. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C15509" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C15509" NCI Thesaurus)
aromatic amino acid	Amino acids containing an aromatic side chain.
basic amino acids	Amino acids with side chains that are positively charged at physiological pH.
amino acids measurement	The measurement of the amount of amino acids in a biologic specimen.
sarcosine	An amino acid intermediate in the metabolism of choline.
dl-arginine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of the amino acid DL-arginine, a racemic mixture of arginine with potential chemopreventive properties. The mechanism of action by which DL-arginine exert its chemopreventive effect may by be attributed to enhancement of detoxification enzymes, including the activation of certain antioxidant enzymes, which may lead to a reduction in the formation of free radicals.
acids amino branch chain	Amino acids which have a branched carbon chain.
branched-chain amino acid	Amino acids which have a branched carbon chain.
cyclic amino acids	A class of amino acids characterized by a closed ring structure.
methylhistidine	Histidine substituted in any position with one or more methyl groups.
dicarboxylic amino acid	Aminosyror med två karboxylgrupper.
acids amino essential	Amino acids that are not synthesized by the human body in amounts sufficient to carry out physiological functions. They are obtained from dietary foodstuffs.
methionine preparation	A sulfur-containing essential L-amino acid that is important in many body functions.
essential amino acids	Amino acids that are not synthesized by the human body in amounts sufficient to carry out physiological functions. They are obtained from dietary foodstuffs.
peptide phi	A 27-amino acid peptide with histidine at the N-terminal and isoleucine amide at the C-terminal. The exact amino acid composition of the peptide is species dependent. The peptide is secreted in the intestine, but is found in the nervous system, many organs, and in the majority of peripheral tissues. It has a wide range of biological actions, affecting the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, respiratory, and central nervous systems.
essential amino acid	Amino acids that are not synthesized by the human body in amounts sufficient to carry out physiological functions. They are obtained from dietary foodstuffs.
indispensable amino acid	Amino acids that are not synthesized by the human body in amounts sufficient to carry out physiological functions. They are obtained from dietary foodstuffs.
dl-methionine	A preparation of METHIONINE that includes a mixture of D-methionine and L-methionine isomers.
threoninum	An essential amino acid occurring naturally in the L-form, which is the active form. It is found in eggs, milk, gelatin, and other proteins.
amino acids essential	Amino acids that are not synthesized by the human body in amounts sufficient to carry out physiological functions. They are obtained from dietary foodstuffs.
amino acid - dietary	A class of twenty organic compounds which are the building blocks for proteins, found in food. Each has a central carbon with an amino group (-NH2), a carboxyl (-COOH) group and a side chain attached.
l-arginine	An essential amino acid that is physiologically active in the L-form.
peptide histidine isoleucine	A 27-amino acid peptide with histidine at the N-terminal and isoleucine amide at the C-terminal. The exact amino acid composition of the peptide is species dependent. The peptide is secreted in the intestine, but is found in the nervous system, many organs, and in the majority of peripheral tissues. It has a wide range of biological actions, affecting the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, respiratory, and central nervous systems.
ethionine	2-Amino-4-(ethylthio)butyric acid. An antimetabolite and methionine antagonist that interferes with amino acid incorporation into proteins and with cellular ATP utilization. It also produces liver neoplasms.
sulfur amino acids	any aminoacid containing sulfur.
formylmethionine n	Effective in the initiation of protein synthesis. The initiating methionine residue enters the ribosome as N-formylmethionyl tRNA. This process occurs in Escherichia coli and other bacteria as well as in the mitochondria of eucaryotic cells.
product containing carbocisteine	A compound formed when iodoacetic acid reacts with sulfhydryl groups in proteins. It has been used as an anti-infective nasal spray with mucolytic and expectorant action.
cystine	A covalently linked dimeric nonessential amino acid formed by the oxidation of CYSTEINE. Two molecules of cysteine are joined together by a disulfide bridge to form cystine.
l-isomer homocysteine	A thiol-containing amino acid formed by a demethylation of METHIONINE.
sulfur-bearing amino acid	any aminoacid containing sulfur.
l-dicysteine	A covalently linked dimeric nonessential amino acid formed by the oxidation of CYSTEINE. Two molecules of cysteine are joined together by a disulfide bridge to form cystine.
product containing tiopronin	An acylated sulfhydryl-containing derivative of glycine with reducing and complexing properties. Tiopronin breaks the disulphide bond of cystine and binds the sulfhydryl group of the resultant cysteine monomers to form a soluble tiopronin-cysteine-mixed disulfide, which is more water-soluble than cystine and is readily excreted. This leads to a reduction in urinary cystine concentration and subsequently reduces cystine stone formation.
aminoalcohol	Compounds possessing both a hydroxyl (-OH) and an amino group (-NH2).
phenylephrine product	An alpha-1 adrenergic agonist used as a mydriatic, nasal decongestant, and cardiotonic agent.
fingolimod	An orally available derivate of myriocin and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1, S1P1) modulator, with potential anti-inflammatory and immunomodulating activities. Upon oral administration, fingolimod, as a structural analogue of sphingosine, selectively targets and binds to S1PR1 on lymphocytes and causes transient receptor activation followed by S1PR1 internalization and degradation. This results in the sequestration of lymphocytes in lymph nodes. By preventing egress of lymphocytes. fingolimod reduces both the amount of circulating peripheral lymphocytes and the infiltration of lymphocytes into target tissues. This prevents a lymphocyte-mediated immune response and may reduce inflammation. S1PR1, a G-protein coupled receptor, plays a key role in lymphocyte migration from lymphoid tissues. Fingolimod also shifts macrophages to an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, and modulates their proliferation, morphology, and cytokine release via inhibition of the transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily M, member 7 (TRPM7).
amino sugar	SUGARS containing an amino group. GLYCOSYLATION of other compounds with these amino sugars results in AMINOGLYCOSIDES.
galactosamine	amino sugar derivative of galactose, substituted at the 2 position; occurs in a variety of glycosaminoglycans and complex polysaccharides, such as blood group substances, and is generally acetylated.
amino sugars	SUGARS containing an amino group. GLYCOSYLATION of other compounds with these amino sugars results in AMINOGLYCOSIDES.
glucosamine	amino sugar derivative of glucose, substituted at the 2 position, occurring in glycosaminoglycans and a variety of complex polysaccharides such as blood group substances.
glucosamine sulfate	An amino sugar (2-amino, 2-deoxyglucose) in cell membranes, Glucosamine Sulfate is believed to play a role in cartilage formation and repair. Long-term glucosamine sulfate treatment retards progression of knee osteoarthritis; the mechanism appears to involve glucosamine's role as an essential substrate for glycosaminoglycans and hyaluronic acid, needed for formation of the joint proteoglycan structural matrix. (NCI04)
hexosamine	six carbon aminosugar.
sugar amine	SUGARS containing an amino group. GLYCOSYLATION of other compounds with these amino sugars results in AMINOGLYCOSIDES.
aminosugar	SUGARS containing an amino group. GLYCOSYLATION of other compounds with these amino sugars results in AMINOGLYCOSIDES.
fructosamine	An amino sugar formed when glucose non-enzymatically reacts with the N-terminal amino group of proteins. The fructose moiety is derived from glucose by the "classical" Amadori rearrangement.
biphenylamines	Biphenyl compounds substituted in any position by one or more amino groups. Permitted are any substituents except fused rings.
p-aminodiphenyl	nitrogen substituted aromatic amine formerly used in dyemaking; now used to induce cancer in laboratory animals.
aminoglutethimide product	An aromatase inhibitor that is used in the treatment of advanced BREAST CANCER.
product containing aromatase inhibitor	Föreningar som blockerar aromatas för att sänka produktionen av östrogena steroidhormoner.
streptomycin sulphate	The sulfate salt form of streptomycin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic derived from Streptomyces griseus with antibacterial property. Streptomycin sulfate binds to the S12 protein of the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, thereby inhibiting peptide elongation and protein synthesis, consequently leading to bacterial cell death.
tobramycin	An aminoglycoside, broad-spectrum antibiotic produced by Streptomyces tenebrarius. It is effective against gram-negative bacteria, especially the PSEUDOMONAS species. It is a 10% component of the antibiotic complex, NEBRAMYCIN, produced by the same species.
aminoglycoside product	Glycosylated compounds in which there is an amino substituent on the glycoside. Some of them are clinically important ANTIBIOTICS.
netilmicin sulphate	The sulfate salt form of netilimicin, a semisynthetic, water soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic. Netilmicin is derived from sisomicin, a naturally occurring aminoglycoside antibiotic produced by the fermentation of Micromonospora inyoensis. Netilmicin irreversibly binds to the 16S rRNA and S12 protein of the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit. As a result, this agent interferes with the assembly of initiation complex between mRNA and the bacterial ribosome, thereby inhibiting the initiation of protein synthesis. In addition, netilmicin induces misreading of the mRNA template and causes translational frameshift, thereby results in premature termination. This eventually leads to bacterial cell death.
aminoglycosides [respiratory use]	Glycosylated compounds in which there is an amino substituent on the glycoside. Some of them are clinically important ANTIBIOTICS.
hygromycin b	Aminoglycoside produced by Streptomyces hygroscopicus. It is used as an anthelmintic against swine infections by large roundworms, nodular worms, and whipworms.
glycoside	Cyclopentanophenanthrenes with a 5- or 6-membered lactone ring attached at the 17-position and SUGARS attached at the 3-position. Plants they come from have long been used in congestive heart failure. They increase the force of cardiac contraction without significantly affecting other parameters, but are very toxic at larger doses. Their mechanism of action usually involves inhibition of the NA(+)-K(+)-EXCHANGING ATPASE and they are often used in cell biological studies for that purpose.
product containing neomycin	Aminoglycoside antibiotic complex produced by Streptomyces fradiae. It is composed of neomycins A, B, and C, and acts by inhibiting translation during protein synthesis.
hydroxymycin	An aminoglycoside antibacterial and antiprotozoal agent produced by species of STREPTOMYCES.
gentamicin	complex of three different closely related aminoglycoside sulfates, obtained from Micromonospora purpurea and related species; broad-spectrum antibiotics; may cause ear and kidney damage; they act to inhibit protein synthesis.
product containing aminoglycoside	Glycosylated compounds in which there is an amino substituent on the glycoside. Some of them are clinically important ANTIBIOTICS.
cardiac glycoside	Cyclopentanophenanthrenes with a 5- or 6-membered lactone ring attached at the 17-position and SUGARS attached at the 3-position. Plants they come from have long been used in congestive heart failure. They increase the force of cardiac contraction without significantly affecting other parameters, but are very toxic at larger doses. Their mechanism of action usually involves inhibition of the NA(+)-K(+)-EXCHANGING ATPASE and they are often used in cell biological studies for that purpose.
neomycin	Aminoglycoside antibiotic complex produced by Streptomyces fradiae. It is composed of neomycins A, B, and C, and acts by inhibiting translation during protein synthesis.
netilmicin	Semisynthetic 1-N-ethyl derivative of SISOMYCIN, an aminoglycoside antibiotic with action similar to gentamicin, but less ear and kidney toxicity.
voxilaprevir	An orally bioavailable inhibitor of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) non-structural protein 3/non-structural protein 4A (NS3/NS4A) serine protease, with antiviral activity. Upon administration, voxilaprevir binds to the HCV NS3/NS4A serine protease and prevents NS3/NS4A protease-mediated polyprotein maturation. This disrupts both the processing of viral proteins and the formation of the viral replication complex, thereby preventing viral replication and function. NS3, a serine protease, is essential for the proteolytic cleavage of multiple sites within the HCV polyprotein and plays a key role during HCV ribonucleic acid (RNA) replication. NS4A is an activating factor for NS3. HCV is a small, enveloped, single-stranded RNA virus belonging to the Flaviviridae family; HCV infection is associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
aminoisobutyric acids	A group of compounds that are derivatives of the amino acid 2-amino-2-methylpropanoic acid.
baiba	A derivative of the amino acid alanine that is a product of thymine metabolism, which has the potential to induce downstream metabolic activity. During exercise, 3-aminoisobutyric acid is secreted by muscle cells into the blood. Once this molecule interacts with adipocytes, it may induce signaling pathways that regulate the metabolism of fats, insulin, and cholesterol.
photosensitizer	Drugs that are pharmacologically inactive but when exposed to ultraviolet radiation or sunlight are converted to their active metabolite to produce a beneficial reaction affecting the diseased tissue. These compounds can be administered topically or systemically and have been used therapeutically to treat psoriasis and various types of neoplasms.
photosensitising agent	Drugs that are pharmacologically inactive but when exposed to ultraviolet radiation or sunlight are converted to their active metabolite to produce a beneficial reaction affecting the diseased tissue. These compounds can be administered topically or systemically and have been used therapeutically to treat psoriasis and various types of neoplasms.
d-amino-levulinic acid	A compound produced from succinyl-CoA and GLYCINE as an intermediate in heme synthesis. It is used as a PHOTOCHEMOTHERAPY for actinic KERATOSIS.
ala - delta-aminolaevulinic acid	A compound produced from succinyl-CoA and GLYCINE as an intermediate in heme synthesis. It is used as a PHOTOCHEMOTHERAPY for actinic KERATOSIS.
ketoacid	Carboxylic acids that contain a KETONE group.
assay aminolevulinic acid	The determination of the amount of delta aminolevulinate present in a sample.
amino-levulinic acid	A compound produced from succinyl-CoA and GLYCINE as an intermediate in heme synthesis. It is used as a PHOTOCHEMOTHERAPY for actinic KERATOSIS.
delta-aminolevulinic acid hcl	A topically administered metabolic precursor of protoporphyrin IX. After topical administration, aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride (ALA HCl) is converted to protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) which is a photosensitizer. When the proper wavelength of light activates protoporphyrin IX, singlet oxygen is produced, resulting in a local cytotoxic effect. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1849" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1849" NCI Thesaurus)
aminolaevulinic acid	A compound produced from succinyl-CoA and GLYCINE as an intermediate in heme synthesis. It is used as a PHOTOCHEMOTHERAPY for actinic KERATOSIS.
delta aminolevulinic acid	A compound produced from succinyl-CoA and GLYCINE as an intermediate in heme synthesis. It is used as a PHOTOCHEMOTHERAPY for actinic KERATOSIS.
aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride	A topically administered metabolic precursor of protoporphyrin IX. After topical administration, aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride (ALA HCl) is converted to protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) which is a photosensitizer. When the proper wavelength of light activates protoporphyrin IX, singlet oxygen is produced, resulting in a local cytotoxic effect. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1849" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1849" NCI Thesaurus)
solar keratosis	White or pink lesions on the arms, hands, face, or scalp that arise from sun-induced DNA DAMAGE to KERATINOCYTES in exposed areas. They are considered precursor lesions to superficial SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA.
unspecified porphyria	group of disorders characterized by the excessive production of porphyrins or their precursors that arises from abnormalities in the regulation of the porphyrin-heme pathway; acquired porphyrias, which are due to inhibition of enzymes in the metabolic pathway by a drug, toxin or abnormal metabolite, are more common than those which are inherited.
porphyrins	A group of compounds containing the porphin structure, four pyrrole rings connected by methine bridges in a cyclic configuration to which a variety of side chains are attached. The nature of the side chain is indicated by a prefix, as uroporphyrin, hematoporphyrin, etc. The porphyrins, in combination with iron, form the heme component in biologically significant compounds such as hemoglobin and myoglobin.
photosensitizing agent	Drugs that are pharmacologically inactive but when exposed to ultraviolet radiation or sunlight are converted to their active metabolite to produce a beneficial reaction affecting the diseased tissue. These compounds can be administered topically or systemically and have been used therapeutically to treat psoriasis and various types of neoplasms.
delta aminolevulinic acid dehydratase	An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of porphobilinogen from two molecules of 5-aminolevulinic acid. EC 4.2.1.24.
ala dehydrase	An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of porphobilinogen from two molecules of 5-aminolevulinic acid. EC 4.2.1.24.
aminooxyacetic acid	A compound that inhibits aminobutyrate aminotransferase activity in vivo, thereby raising the level of gamma-aminobutyric acid in tissues.
gamma aminobutyric acid agents	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
gabaergic agent	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
peptidase a	A subclass of EXOPEPTIDASES that act on the free N terminus end of a polypeptide liberating a single amino acid residue. EC 3.4.11.
glutamyl aminopeptidase	Ett zinkberoende, membranbundet aminopeptidas som katalyserar klyning av N-terminalpeptiden hos glutamat (och i viss mån aspartat). Enzymet tycks spela en roll i det katabola förloppet i renin-angiotensinsystemet. EC 3.4.11.7.
aminopeptidases	A subclass of EXOPEPTIDASES that act on the free N terminus end of a polypeptide liberating a single amino acid residue. EC 3.4.11.
cystinyl aminopeptidase	Ett zinkhaltigt sialoglykoprotein som används för att undersöka aminopeptidasverksamheten i samband med patogenesen vid högt blodtryck. EC 3.4.11.3.
aminopeptidase	A subclass of EXOPEPTIDASES that act on the free N terminus end of a polypeptide liberating a single amino acid residue. EC 3.4.11.
aminopeptidase m	Zinc-binding metalloproteases that are members of the type II integral membrane metalloproteases. They are expressed by GRANULOCYTES; MONOCYTES; and their precursors as well as by various non-hematopoietic cells. They release an N-terminal amino acid from a peptide, amide or arylamide.
proteinases	Hydrolases that specifically cleave the peptide bonds found in PROTEINS and PEPTIDES. Examples of sub-subclasses for this group include EXOPEPTIDASES and ENDOPEPTIDASES.
aminophylline	A drug combination that contains THEOPHYLLINE and ethylenediamine. It is more soluble in water than theophylline but has similar pharmacologic actions. It's most common use is in bronchial asthma, but it has been investigated for several other applications.
aminophylline - chemical	A drug combination that contains THEOPHYLLINE and ethylenediamine. It is more soluble in water than theophylline but has similar pharmacologic actions. It's most common use is in bronchial asthma, but it has been investigated for several other applications.
phosphodiesterase inhib	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
theophyllamine	A drug combination that contains THEOPHYLLINE and ethylenediamine. It is more soluble in water than theophylline but has similar pharmacologic actions. It's most common use is in bronchial asthma, but it has been investigated for several other applications.
xanthine	2,6-dioxypurine; purine base found in most body tissues and fluids, certain plants, and some urinary calculi; it is an intermediate in the degradation of adenosine monophosphate to uric acid, being formed by oxidation of hypoxanthine; methylated xanthine compounds caffeine, theobromine, and theophylline and their derivatives are used in medicine for their bronchodilator effects.
has stopped breathing	A transient absence of spontaneous respiration.
bronchial spasm	Spasmodic contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi.
bronchitis	Inflammation of the large airways in the lung including any part of the BRONCHI, from the PRIMARY BRONCHI to the TERTIARY BRONCHI.
hyperthyroidism	Hypersecretion of THYROID HORMONES from the THYROID GLAND. Elevated levels of thyroid hormones increase BASAL METABOLIC RATE.
aminophylline product	A drug combination that contains THEOPHYLLINE and ethylenediamine. It is more soluble in water than theophylline but has similar pharmacologic actions. It's most common use is in bronchial asthma, but it has been investigated for several other applications.
ammophyllin	A drug combination that contains THEOPHYLLINE and ethylenediamine. It is more soluble in water than theophylline but has similar pharmacologic actions. It's most common use is in bronchial asthma, but it has been investigated for several other applications.
aminofilina	A drug combination that contains THEOPHYLLINE and ethylenediamine. It is more soluble in water than theophylline but has similar pharmacologic actions. It's most common use is in bronchial asthma, but it has been investigated for several other applications.
adenosine receptor antagonist	Compounds that bind to and block the stimulation of PURINERGIC P1 RECEPTORS.
myocardial stimulant	Agents that have a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output. They may be CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES; SYMPATHOMIMETICS; or other drugs. They are used after MYOCARDIAL INFARCT; CARDIAC SURGICAL PROCEDURES; in SHOCK; or in congestive heart failure (HEART FAILURE).
beta aminopropionitrile	Reagent used as an intermediate in the manufacture of beta-alanine and pantothenic acid.
aminopteroylglutamic acid	A folic acid derivative used as a rodenticide that has been shown to be teratogenic.
folic acid antagonists	Inhibitors of the enzyme, dihydrofolate reductase (TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE), which converts dihydrofolate (FH2) to tetrahydrofolate (FH4). They are frequently used in cancer chemotherapy. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
aminopterin	A folic acid derivative used as a rodenticide that has been shown to be teratogenic.
edatrexate	A polyglutamatable folate antagonist analogue of methotrexate with antineoplastic activity. Edatrexate inhibits dihydrofolate reductase, thereby increasing cellular levels of polyglutamates, inhibiting thymidylate synthase and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyl transferase, impairing synthesis of purine nucleotides and amino acids, and resulting in tumor cell death. Edatrexate may overcome tumor resistance to methotrexate, which loses its activity after it is polyglutamated. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C958" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C958" NCI Thesaurus)
pralatrexate	A folate analogue inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) exhibiting high affinity for reduced folate carrier-1 (RFC-1) with antineoplastic and immunosuppressive activities. Pralatrexate selectively enters cells expressing RFC-1; intracellularly, this agent is highly polyglutamylated and competes for the folate binding site of DHFR, blocking tetrahydrofolate synthesis, which may result in depletion of nucleotide precursors; inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein synthesis; and apoptotic tumor cell death. Efficient intracellular polyglutamylation of pralatrexate results in higher intracellular concentrations compared to non-polyglutamylated pralatrexate, which is more readily effuxed by the MRP (multidrug resistance protein) drug efflux pump. RFC-1, an oncofetal protein expressed at highest levels during embryonic development, may be over-expressed on the cell surfaces of various cancer cell types.
antifolate product	Inhibitors of the enzyme, dihydrofolate reductase (TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE), which converts dihydrofolate (FH2) to tetrahydrofolate (FH4). They are frequently used in cancer chemotherapy. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
pterin	Compounds based on 2-amino-4-hydroxypteridine.
pteramina	A folic acid derivative used as a rodenticide that has been shown to be teratogenic.
rodenticides	Substances used to destroy or inhibit the action of rats, mice, or other rodents.
aminopterine	A folic acid derivative used as a rodenticide that has been shown to be teratogenic.
aminopterin sodium	The sodium salt of a pterin derivative with antineoplastic and immunosuppressive properties. As a folate analogue, aminopterin competes for the folate binding site of the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase, thereby blocking tetrahydrofolate synthesis, and resulting in depletion of nucleotide precursors and inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein synthesis. (NCI04)
pteridines	Compounds based on pyrazino[2,3-d]pyrimidine which is a pyrimidine fused to a pyrazine, containing four NITROGEN atoms.
pterins	Compounds based on 2-amino-4-hydroxypteridine.
folate inhibitors	Inhibitors of the enzyme, dihydrofolate reductase (TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE), which converts dihydrofolate (FH2) to tetrahydrofolate (FH4). They are frequently used in cancer chemotherapy. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
antifolates	Inhibitors of the enzyme, dihydrofolate reductase (TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE), which converts dihydrofolate (FH2) to tetrahydrofolate (FH4). They are frequently used in cancer chemotherapy. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
folic acid antagonist	Inhibitors of the enzyme, dihydrofolate reductase (TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE), which converts dihydrofolate (FH2) to tetrahydrofolate (FH4). They are frequently used in cancer chemotherapy. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
aminopyridines	Pyridines substituted in any position with an amino group. May be hydrogenated but must retain at least one double bond.
amlexanox	An anti-aphthous ulcer drug. Amlexanox inhibits the synthesis and release of inflammatory mediators, including leukotrienes and histamine, from mast cells, neutrophils, and mononuclear cells. Amlexanox also acts as a leukotriene D4 antagonist and a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Amlexanox decreases the time ulcers take to heal as well as the pain associated with the ulcers.
aminopyridine	Pyridines substituted in any position with an amino group. May be hydrogenated but must retain at least one double bond.
roflumilast	An orally available, long-acting inhibitor of phosphodiesterase (PDE) type 4 (PDE4), with anti-inflammatory and potential antineoplastic activities. Upon administration, roflumilast and its active metabolite roflumilast N-oxide selectively and competitively bind to and inhibit PDE4, which leads to an increase of both intracellular levels of cyclic-3',5'-adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cAMP-mediated signaling. cAMP prevents phosphorylation of spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) and abrogates activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, which may result in the induction of apoptosis. PDE4, a member of the PDE superfamily that hydrolyses cAMP and 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) to their inactive 5' monophosphates, is upregulated in a variety of cancers and may contribute to chemoresistance; it also plays a key role in inflammation, especially in inflammatory airway diseases.
ilorasertib	An orally bioavailable, adenosine triphospate mimetic, and inhibitor of Aurora kinases, vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFRs) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFRs), with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon administration, ilorasertib selectively binds to and inhibits Aurora kinases A, B and C, which may disrupt both the assembly of the mitotic spindle apparatus and chromosome segregation, and inhibit both cellular division and proliferation in Aurora kinase-overexpressing tumor cells. In addition, ilorasertib selectively binds to and inhibits VEGFRs and PDGFRs, which may result in the inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell proliferation in VEGFR/PDGFR-overexpressing tumor cells. This agent also inhibits the Src family of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases. Aurora kinases A, B and C, are serine/threonine kinases that play essential roles in mitotic checkpoint control and are overexpressed by a wide variety of tumor cell types. Both VEGFRs and PDGFRs are receptor tyrosine kinase families whose members may be upregulated in various tumor cell types.
ribociclib	An orally available cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor targets at cyclin D1/CDK4 and cyclin D3/CDK6 cell cycle pathway, with potential antineoplastic activity. Ribociclib specifically inhibits CDK4 and 6, thereby inhibiting retinoblastoma (Rb) protein phosphorylation. Inhibition of Rb phosphorylation prevents CDK-mediated G1-S phase transition, thereby arresting the cell cycle in the G1 phase, suppressing DNA synthesis and inhibiting cancer cell growth. Overexpression of CDK4/6, as seen in certain types of cancer, causes cell cycle deregulation.
ulixertinib	An orally available inhibitor of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1 and 2, with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, ulixertinib inhibits both ERK 1 and 2, thereby preventing the activation of ERK-mediated signal transduction pathways. This results in the inhibition of ERK-dependent tumor cell proliferation and survival. The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ERK pathway is often upregulated in a variety of tumor cell types and plays a key role in tumor cell proliferation, differentiation and survival.
miransertib	An orally bioavailable inhibitor of the serine/threonine protein kinase AKT (protein kinase B) with potential antineoplastic activity. Miransertib binds to and inhibits the activity of AKT in a non-ATP competitive manner, which may result in the inhibition of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. This may lead to the reduction in tumor cell proliferation and the induction of tumor cell apoptosis. The AKT signaling pathway is often deregulated in cancer and is associated with tumor cell proliferation, survival and migration.
amidophenazon	A pyrazolone with analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties but has risk of AGRANULOCYTOSIS. A breath test with 13C-labeled aminopyrine has been used as a non-invasive measure of CYTOCHROME P-450 metabolic activity in LIVER FUNCTION TESTS.
nsaids	Anti-inflammatory agents that are non-steroidal in nature. In addition to anti-inflammatory actions, they have analgesic, antipyretic, and platelet-inhibitory actions. They act by blocking the synthesis of prostaglandins by inhibiting cyclooxygenase, which converts arachidonic acid to cyclic endoperoxides, precursors of prostaglandins. Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis accounts for their analgesic, antipyretic, and platelet-inhibitory actions; other mechanisms may contribute to their anti-inflammatory effects.
aminofenazona	A pyrazolone with analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties but has risk of AGRANULOCYTOSIS. A breath test with 13C-labeled aminopyrine has been used as a non-invasive measure of CYTOCHROME P-450 metabolic activity in LIVER FUNCTION TESTS.
dimethyl n aminoantipyrine	A pyrazolone with analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties but has risk of AGRANULOCYTOSIS. A breath test with 13C-labeled aminopyrine has been used as a non-invasive measure of CYTOCHROME P-450 metabolic activity in LIVER FUNCTION TESTS.
nsaid	Anti-inflammatory agents that are non-steroidal in nature. In addition to anti-inflammatory actions, they have analgesic, antipyretic, and platelet-inhibitory actions. They act by blocking the synthesis of prostaglandins by inhibiting cyclooxygenase, which converts arachidonic acid to cyclic endoperoxides, precursors of prostaglandins. Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis accounts for their analgesic, antipyretic, and platelet-inhibitory actions; other mechanisms may contribute to their anti-inflammatory effects.
aminoquinolines	Quinolines substituted in any position by one or more amino groups.
mavorixafor	An orally bioavailable inhibitor of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), with potential antineoplastic and immune checkpoint inhibitory activities. Upon administration, mavorixafor selectively binds to CXCR4 and prevents the binding of CXCR4 to its ligand, stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1 or CXCL12). This inhibits receptor activation and results in decreased proliferation and migration of CXCR4-overexpressing tumor cells. In addition, inhibition of CXCR4 prevents the recruitment of regulatory T-cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) to the tumor microenvironment, thereby abrogating CXCR4-mediated immunosuppression and enabling the activation of a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-mediated immune response against cancer cells. The G protein-coupled receptor CXCR4, which is upregulated in several tumor cell types, induces the recruitment of immunosuppressive cells in the tumor microenvironment, suppresses immune surveillance, and promotes tumor angiogenesis and tumor cell proliferation. It is also a co-receptor for HIV entry into T-cells.
aminorexum	An amphetamine-like anorectic agent. It may cause pulmonary hypertension.
anorexic drugs	Agents that are used to suppress appetite.
aminorex	An amphetamine-like anorectic agent. It may cause pulmonary hypertension.
aminosalicylic acids	A group of 2-hydroxybenzoic acids that can be substituted by amino groups at any of the 3-, 4-, 5-, or 6-positions.
sulfasalazine [musculoskeletal use]	A drug that is used in the management of inflammatory bowel diseases. Its activity is generally considered to lie in its metabolic breakdown product, 5-aminosalicylic acid (see MESALAMINE) released in the colon. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p907)
azodisalicylate	A prodrug of mesalamine (5-Aminosalicylic acid; 5-ASA) with anti-inflammatory activity. Unabsorbed olsalazine passes through gastrointestinal tract and is cleaved by azoreductases, produced by microflora in colon, into 2 active molecules of 5-ASA. 5-ASA exerts its anti-inflammatory action locally by inhibiting cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase activities, thereby reducing the production of prostaglandins and leukotrienes. In addition, mesalamine may act as a scavenger of reactive oxygen free radicals.
mesalamine	An anti-inflammatory agent, structurally related to the SALICYLATES, which is active in INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE. It is considered to be the active moiety of SULPHASALAZINE. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed)
transaminases	A subclass of enzymes of the transferase class that catalyze the transfer of an amino group from a donor (generally an amino acid) to an acceptor (generally a 2-keto acid). Most of these enzymes are pyridoxyl phosphate proteins. (Dorland, 28th ed) EC 2.6.1.
psat deficiency	An extremely rare form of serine deficiency syndrome with clinical manifestations in the two reported cases to date of acquired microcephaly, psychomotor retardation, intractable seizures and hypertonia.
ornithine keto acid transaminase	A pyridoxal phosphate enzyme that catalyzes the formation of glutamate gamma-semialdehyde and an L-amino acid from L-ornithine and a 2-keto-acid. EC 2.6.1.13.
glycine aminotransferase	A PYRIDOXAL PHOSPHATE containing enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of the amino group of GLYCINE onto 2-oxoglutarate to generate GLYOXYLATE and L-GLUTAMATE.
leucine alpha ketoglutarate aminotransferase	Ett pyridoxalfosfatbärande enzym som katalyserar den reversibla transamineringen av grenade aminosyror till 2-oxoglutarat. EC 2.6.1.6.
transaminase a	Enzymer i transferasklassen som katalyserar reaktionen mellan L-aspartat och 2-ketoglutarat till oxaloacetat och L-glutamat. Enzymerna är pyridoxalfosfatproteiner. I levern överför reaktionen överskottskväve till aspartat för användning i ureacykeln. EC 2.6.1.1. Syn. aspartattransaminaser.
tyrosine transaminase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of L-TYROSINE and 2-oxoglutarate to 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate and L-GLUTAMATE. It is a pyridoxal-phosphate protein. L-PHENYLALANINE is hydroxylated to L-tyrosine. The mitochondrial enzyme may be identical with ASPARTATE AMINOTRANSFERASES (EC 2.6.1.1.). Deficiency of this enzyme may cause type II Tyrosinemia (see TYROSINEMIAS). EC 2.6.1.5.
alt alanine aminotransferase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of L-alanine and 2-oxoglutarate to pyruvate and L-glutamate. (From Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 2.6.1.2.
transferase gene	Transferase Genes encode enzymes (Transferases) that transfer a group, such as a methyl group or a glycosyl group, from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor). (NCI)
transaminase activity	Catalysis of the transfer of an amino group to an acceptor, usually a 2-oxo acid. [ISBN:0198506732]
amiodarone	An antianginal and class III antiarrhythmic drug. It increases the duration of ventricular and atrial muscle action by inhibiting POTASSIUM CHANNELS and VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. There is a resulting decrease in heart rate and in vascular resistance.
product containing ritonavir	An HIV protease inhibitor that works by interfering with the reproductive cycle of HIV. It also inhibits CYTOCHROME P-450 CYP3A.
tipranavir	A non-peptidomimetic agent that inhibits both wild type and drug resistant forms of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease.
channel block na	En klass läkemedel, vars verkan är att blockera natriumtillförseln genom cellmembran. Stängning av natriumkanalerna sänker hastigheten och amplituden för snabb, inledande depolarisering, minskar cellens retbarhet och ledningshastighet.
amiodarona	An antianginal and class III antiarrhythmic drug. It increases the duration of ventricular and atrial muscle action by inhibiting POTASSIUM CHANNELS and VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. There is a resulting decrease in heart rate and in vascular resistance.
potassium channel blockers	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
sodium channel blockers	En klass läkemedel, vars verkan är att blockera natriumtillförseln genom cellmembran. Stängning av natriumkanalerna sänker hastigheten och amplituden för snabb, inledande depolarisering, minskar cellens retbarhet och ledningshastighet.
amiodarone hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of an iodine-rich benzofuran derivative with antiarrhythmic and vasodilatory activities. As a class III antiarrhythmic agent, amiodarone blocks the myocardial calcium, potassium and sodium channels in cardiac tissue, resulting in prolongation of the cardiac action potential and refractory period. In addition, this agent inhibits alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors, resulting in a reduction in sympathetic stimulation of the heart, a negative chronotropic effect, and a decrease in myocardial oxygen demands. Amiodarone may cause vasodilation by stimulation of the release of nitric oxide and cyclooxygenase-dependent relaxing endothelial factors.
amiodaronum	An antianginal and class III antiarrhythmic drug. It increases the duration of ventricular and atrial muscle action by inhibiting POTASSIUM CHANNELS and VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. There is a resulting decrease in heart rate and in vascular resistance.
amiodarone product	An antianginal and class III antiarrhythmic drug. It increases the duration of ventricular and atrial muscle action by inhibiting POTASSIUM CHANNELS and VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. There is a resulting decrease in heart rate and in vascular resistance.
dysrhythmias	any variation from the normal rhythm or rate of the heart beat.
cardiac dysrhythmia	any variation from the normal rhythm or rate of the heart beat.
a-v block	Impaired impulse conduction from HEART ATRIA to HEART VENTRICLES. AV block can mean delayed or completely blocked impulse conduction.
sick syndrome sinus	A condition caused by dysfunctions related to the SINOATRIAL NODE including impulse generation (CARDIAC SINUS ARREST) and impulse conduction (SINOATRIAL EXIT BLOCK). It is characterized by persistent BRADYCARDIA, chronic ATRIAL FIBRILLATION, and failure to resume sinus rhythm following CARDIOVERSION. This syndrome can be congenital or acquired, particularly after surgical correction for heart defects.
cisaprid	cis-4-amino-5-chloro-N-(1-(3- (p-fluorophenoxy)propyl)-3-methoxy-4- piperidyl)-o-anisamide; peristaltic stimulant under clinical evaluation for constipation, gastroparesis, intestinal pseudoobstruction, and other GI motility disorders.
bradycardia	Cardiac arrhythmias that are characterized by excessively slow HEART RATE, usually below 50 beats per minute in human adults. They can be classified broadly into SINOATRIAL NODE dysfunction and ATRIOVENTRICULAR BLOCK.
amiodarone hcl	The hydrochloride salt of an iodine-rich benzofuran derivative with antiarrhythmic and vasodilatory activities. As a class III antiarrhythmic agent, amiodarone blocks the myocardial calcium, potassium and sodium channels in cardiac tissue, resulting in prolongation of the cardiac action potential and refractory period. In addition, this agent inhibits alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors, resulting in a reduction in sympathetic stimulation of the heart, a negative chronotropic effect, and a decrease in myocardial oxygen demands. Amiodarone may cause vasodilation by stimulation of the release of nitric oxide and cyclooxygenase-dependent relaxing endothelial factors.
product containing amiodarone	An antianginal and class III antiarrhythmic drug. It increases the duration of ventricular and atrial muscle action by inhibiting POTASSIUM CHANNELS and VOLTAGE-GATED SODIUM CHANNELS. There is a resulting decrease in heart rate and in vascular resistance.
amitriptyline	Tricyclic antidepressant with anticholinergic and sedative properties. It appears to prevent the re-uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin at nerve terminals, thus potentiating the action of these neurotransmitters. Amitriptyline also appears to antagonize cholinergic and alpha-1 adrenergic responses to bioactive amines.
cyclobenzaprine	A centrally acting skeletal muscle relaxant with antidepressant activity. The exact mechanism of action of cyclobenzaprine has not been fully determined, but this drug seems to primarily act at the brain stem to reduce tonic somatic motor activity, influencing both gamma and alpha motor neurons leading to a reduction in muscle spasms.
tricyclic antidepressants	Substances that contain a fused three-ring moiety and are used in the treatment of depression. These drugs block the uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin into axon terminals and may block some subtypes of serotonin, adrenergic, and histamine receptors. However, the mechanism of their antidepressant effects is not clear because the therapeutic effects usually take weeks to develop and may reflect compensatory changes in the central nervous system.
amitriptylinum	Tricyclic antidepressant with anticholinergic and sedative properties. It appears to prevent the re-uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin at nerve terminals, thus potentiating the action of these neurotransmitters. Amitriptyline also appears to antagonize cholinergic and alpha-1 adrenergic responses to bioactive amines.
reuptake inhib adren	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
adrenergic uptake inhibitor	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
antidepressants tricyclic	Substances that contain a fused three-ring moiety and are used in the treatment of depression. These drugs block the uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin into axon terminals and may block some subtypes of serotonin, adrenergic, and histamine receptors. However, the mechanism of their antidepressant effects is not clear because the therapeutic effects usually take weeks to develop and may reflect compensatory changes in the central nervous system.
adren uptake inhib	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
amitriptyline hydrochloride - chemical	A drug that is used to treat depression and may be given to treat anxiety, sleep disorders, and pain. It is also being studied in an oral or gel form in the treatment of nerve pain caused by chemotherapy. Amitriptyline hydrochloride is a type of tricyclic antidepressant.
metabolism liver	sum of chemical changes that occur within the liver of an organism consisting of anabolism (biosynthesis) and catabolism; the buildup and breakdown of molecules for utilization by the liver.
tricyclic antidepressive agents	Substances that contain a fused three-ring moiety and are used in the treatment of depression. These drugs block the uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin into axon terminals and may block some subtypes of serotonin, adrenergic, and histamine receptors. However, the mechanism of their antidepressant effects is not clear because the therapeutic effects usually take weeks to develop and may reflect compensatory changes in the central nervous system.
adren reuptake inhib	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
amitriptilina	Tricyclic antidepressant with anticholinergic and sedative properties. It appears to prevent the re-uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin at nerve terminals, thus potentiating the action of these neurotransmitters. Amitriptyline also appears to antagonize cholinergic and alpha-1 adrenergic responses to bioactive amines.
inhib adren reuptake	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
tricyclic antidepressant	Substances that contain a fused three-ring moiety and are used in the treatment of depression. These drugs block the uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin into axon terminals and may block some subtypes of serotonin, adrenergic, and histamine receptors. However, the mechanism of their antidepressant effects is not clear because the therapeutic effects usually take weeks to develop and may reflect compensatory changes in the central nervous system.
aminotriazole	A non-selective post-emergence, translocated herbicide. According to the Seventh Annual Report on Carcinogens (PB95-109781, 1994) this substance may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen. (From Merck Index, 12th ed) It is an irreversible inhibitor of CATALASE, and thus impairs activity of peroxisomes.
amitrole	A non-selective post-emergence, translocated herbicide. According to the Seventh Annual Report on Carcinogens (PB95-109781, 1994) this substance may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen. (From Merck Index, 12th ed) It is an irreversible inhibitor of CATALASE, and thus impairs activity of peroxisomes.
ammonia	A measurement of the ammonia in a biological specimen.
ammonia product	A colorless alkaline gas. It is formed in the body during decomposition of organic materials during a large number of metabolically important reactions. Note that the aqueous form of ammonia is referred to as AMMONIUM HYDROXIDE.
inorganic chemical	A broad class of substances encompassing all those that do not include carbon and its derivatives as their principal elements. However, carbides, carbonates, cyanides, cyanates, and carbon disulfide are included in this class.
ammonia level	A measurement of the ammonia in a biological specimen.
ammonia measurement	A measurement of the ammonia in a biological specimen.
product containing ammonia	A colorless alkaline gas. It is formed in the body during decomposition of organic materials during a large number of metabolically important reactions. Note that the aqueous form of ammonia is referred to as AMMONIUM HYDROXIDE.
nitrogen compound	tree heading for selected nitrogen-containing chemicals, including inorganic; for additional organic, see RTs listed here.
ammonia-lyase	Enzymes that catalyze the formation of a carbon-carbon double bond by the elimination of AMMONIA. EC 4.3.1.
fumaric aminase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of aspartic acid to ammonia and fumaric acid in plants and some microorganisms. EC 4.3.1.1.
aspartate ammonia-lyase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of aspartic acid to ammonia and fumaric acid in plants and some microorganisms. EC 4.3.1.1.
histidinase	An enzyme that catalyzes the first step of histidine catabolism, forming UROCANIC ACID and AMMONIA from HISTIDINE. Deficiency of this enzyme is associated with elevated levels of serum histidine and is called histidinemia (AMINO ACID METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS).
ammonia-lyases	Enzymes that catalyze the formation of a carbon-carbon double bond by the elimination of AMMONIA. EC 4.3.1.
histidine ammonia-lyase	An enzyme that catalyzes the first step of histidine catabolism, forming UROCANIC ACID and AMMONIA from HISTIDINE. Deficiency of this enzyme is associated with elevated levels of serum histidine and is called histidinemia (AMINO ACID METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS).
ammonia lyases	Enzymes that catalyze the formation of a carbon-carbon double bond by the elimination of AMMONIA. EC 4.3.1.
lyases	A class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of C-C, C-O, and C-N, and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 4.
amchlor	An acidifying agent that has expectorant and diuretic effects. Also used in etching and batteries and as a flux in electroplating.
electrolyte replacement agent	Any agent or mixture of agents that are used to replenish electrolytes in body fluids, such as sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, chloride and bicarbonate.
ammonium chloride	An acidifying agent that has expectorant and diuretic effects. Also used in etching and batteries and as a flux in electroplating.
ammonium chloride product	An acidifying agent that has expectorant and diuretic effects. Also used in etching and batteries and as a flux in electroplating.
genitourinary drug	Drugs used in treatment of medical conditions found in REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS and the URINARY TRACT such as URINARY INCONTINENCE; ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION; and PRETERM LABOR prevention.
metabolic disease	Generic term for diseases caused by an abnormal metabolic process. It can be congenital due to inherited enzyme abnormality (METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS) or acquired due to disease of an endocrine organ or failure of a metabolically important organ such as the liver. (Stedman, 26th ed)
liver failure	Severe inability of the LIVER to perform its normal metabolic functions, as evidenced by severe JAUNDICE and abnormal serum levels of AMMONIA; BILIRUBIN; ALKALINE PHOSPHATASE; ASPARTATE AMINOTRANSFERASE; LACTATE DEHYDROGENASES; and albumin/globulin ratio. (Blakiston's Gould Medical Dictionary, 4th ed)
contact lens cleaning solutions	Cleaning solutions formulated for loosing debris from contact lenses; most solutions require a gentle rubbing of the lenses. Specialized solutions are available according to the material of the contact lenses (e.g., soft, gas permeable, rigid). Some solutions include chemical components to remove protein (enzymes) build-up and/or disinfection agents (i.e., germicides). Cleaning contact lenses typically require rinsing with water or a cleansing agent (e.g., saline solution) after using the cleaning solution. Contact lens cleaning solutions are used for manual daily cleaning of the lens.
ammonium compounds	inorganic and organic compounds that contain the radical NH4 or ammonium.
ammonium sulfate	Sulfuric acid diammonium salt. It is used in CHEMICAL FRACTIONATION of proteins.
ammonium cpds	inorganic and organic compounds that contain the radical NH4 or ammonium.
meglumine	1-Deoxy-1-(methylamino)-D-glucitol. A derivative of sorbitol in which the hydroxyl group in position 1 is replaced by a methylamino group. Often used in conjunction with iodinated organic compounds as contrast medium.
ammonium compound	inorganic and organic compounds that contain the radical NH4 or ammonium.
hydroxylamine	A colorless inorganic compound (HONH2) used in organic synthesis and as a reducing agent, due to its ability to donate nitric oxide.
ammonium hydroxide	The hydroxy salt of ammonium ion. It is formed when AMMONIA reacts with water molecules in solution.
ammonium lactate	An organic salt of ammonium (lactic acid neutralized with ammonium hydroxide), topical moisturizing Ammonium Lactate can be applied as a humectant in ichthyosis vulgaris and xerosis. Available as cream or lotion, this agent moisturizes the skin and breaks up the scales. (NCI04)
dysmnesia	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
long-term memory loss	Limited recall of long past events
amnesia	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
short-term memory loss	Limited recall of recent events
memory dis	Disturbances in registering an impression, in the retention of an acquired impression, or in the recall of an impression. Memory impairments are associated with DEMENTIA; CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; ENCEPHALITIS; ALCOHOLISM (see also ALCOHOL AMNESTIC DISORDER); SCHIZOPHRENIA; and other conditions.
short term memory loss	Limited recall of recent events
transient global amnesia	A syndrome characterized by a transient loss of the ability to form new memories. It primarily occurs in middle aged or elderly individuals, and episodes may last from minutes to hours. During the period of amnesia, immediate and recent memory abilities are impaired, but the level of consciousness and ability to perform other intellectual tasks are preserved. The condition is related to bilateral dysfunction of the medial portions of each TEMPORAL LOBE. Complete recovery normally occurs, and recurrences are unusual. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp429-30)
long term memory loss	Limited recall of long past events
amnesia nos	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
amnesias	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
memory impairment	A disorder characterized by a deterioration in memory function.
memory loss	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
anterograde amnesia	Ztráta schopnosti vytvářet nové vzpomínky po určitém spouštěcím stimulu. Tento stav může být organického (úrazy hlavy, záchvaty, nedostatečné okysličení mozku a další podmínky, které nepříznivě ovlivňují nervové struktury řídící paměť) nebo psychogenního původu (při některých neurotických obtížích).
memory loss - amnesia	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
lom - loss of memory	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
amnesia-memory loss	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
short-term memory poor	Limited recall of recent events
poor long-term memory	Limited recall of long past events
amnesia memory loss	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
loss memory short term	Limited recall of recent events
long term memory impairment	Limited recall of long past events
loss memory short-term	Limited recall of recent events
memory loss nos	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
poor memory	A disorder characterized by a deterioration in memory function.
retrograde amnesia	Loss of the ability to recall information that had been previously encoded in memory prior to a specified or approximate point in time. This process may be organic or psychogenic in origin. Organic forms may be associated with CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENTS; SEIZURES; DEMENTIA; and a wide variety of other conditions that impair cerebral function. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-9)
loss of memory	Pathologic partial or complete loss of the ability to recall past experiences (AMNESIA, RETROGRADE) or to form new memories (AMNESIA, ANTEROGRADE). This condition may be of organic or psychologic origin. Organic forms of amnesia are usually associated with dysfunction of the DIENCEPHALON or HIPPOCAMPUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-7)
procedural memory loss	A reduction in the ability to retrieve information about how to perform activities, such as how to ride a bike or drive a car, how to perform activities of daily living, or how to play a musical instrument. []
impaired declarative memory	Impaired ability to remember facts and events. [PMID:33524264]
long-term memory poor	Limited recall of long past events
retrograde amnesias	Loss of the ability to recall information that had been previously encoded in memory prior to a specified or approximate point in time. This process may be organic or psychogenic in origin. Organic forms may be associated with CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENTS; SEIZURES; DEMENTIA; and a wide variety of other conditions that impair cerebral function. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-9)
memory deficit	A disorder characterized by a deterioration in memory function.
amnesia; retrograde	Loss of the ability to recall information that had been previously encoded in memory prior to a specified or approximate point in time. This process may be organic or psychogenic in origin. Organic forms may be associated with CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA; CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENTS; SEIZURES; DEMENTIA; and a wide variety of other conditions that impair cerebral function. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp426-9)
mildly	Gentle or temperate in nature or degree.
amniocentesis	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
aspiration - diagnostic	The withdrawal of fluid via a needle for microscopic examination for the purpose of diagnosing a disease/disorder.
amniocenteses	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
incision and drainage of amnion	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
amnio fld	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
amniotic cavity	The fluid-filled space within the amnion that contains the developing fetus.
diagnostic amniocentesis	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
aspiration action	Extraction using negative pressure
laboratory study	Research done in a laboratory. A laboratory study may use special equipment and cells or animals to find out if a drug, procedure, or treatment is likely to be useful in humans. It may also be a part of a clinical trial, such as when blood or other samples are collected. These may be used to measure the effect of a drug, procedure, or treatment on the body.
amniocentesis diagnosic	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
paracentesis	A procedure in which fluid is withdrawn from a body cavity or organ via a trocar and cannula, needle, or other hollow instrument.
aspiration procedure	Extraction using negative pressure
female genitalia	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
structure of amniotic cavity	The fluid-filled space within the amnion that contains the developing fetus.
aspiration	Extraction using negative pressure
amnion	The innermost membranous sac that surrounds and protects the developing embryo which is bathed in the AMNIOTIC FLUID. Amnion cells are secretory EPITHELIAL CELLS and contribute to the amniotic fluid.
amniocentesis diagnostic	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
amniotic fluid	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
amniocentesis; diagnostic	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
amniotic membrane	The innermost membranous sac that surrounds and protects the developing embryo which is bathed in the AMNIOTIC FLUID. Amnion cells are secretory EPITHELIAL CELLS and contribute to the amniotic fluid.
amniotic fluids	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
aqua amnii	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
body_system	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
diagnostic aspiration	The withdrawal of fluid via a needle for microscopic examination for the purpose of diagnosing a disease/disorder.
structure of amnion	The innermost membranous sac that surrounds and protects the developing embryo which is bathed in the AMNIOTIC FLUID. Amnion cells are secretory EPITHELIAL CELLS and contribute to the amniotic fluid.
female genital	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
ac - amniocentesis	Percutaneous transabdominal puncture of the uterus during pregnancy to obtain amniotic fluid. It is commonly used for fetal karyotype determination in order to diagnose abnormal fetal conditions.
diagnostic intent	Characteristic or indicative of a condition.
removal by suction	Extraction using negative pressure
amniotic	The innermost membranous sac that surrounds and protects the developing embryo which is bathed in the AMNIOTIC FLUID. Amnion cells are secretory EPITHELIAL CELLS and contribute to the amniotic fluid.
extraembryonic structure	Any anatomical structure that arises from the zygote but is external to the developing embryo.
amniotic sac	The transparent extraembryonic sac that holds the developing fetus and surrounding amniotic fluid.
extraembryonic membranes	Finas capas de tejidos que rodean al embrión en desarrollo. En los VERTEBRADOS, como los REPTILES, AVES y MAMIFEROS, hay cuatro membranas extraembrionarias. Éstas son el SACO VITELINO, el ALANTOIDES, el AMNIOS y el CORION. Esas membranas proporcionan protección y medio de trasporte de nutrientes y residuos.
amnions	The innermost membranous sac that surrounds and protects the developing embryo which is bathed in the AMNIOTIC FLUID. Amnion cells are secretory EPITHELIAL CELLS and contribute to the amniotic fluid.
infection of amniotic cavity	Inflammation of the amnion.
amnionitis	Inflammation of the amnion.
premature membrane rupture	Spontaneous tearing of the membranes surrounding the FETUS any time before the onset of OBSTETRIC LABOR. Preterm PROM is membrane rupture before 37 weeks of GESTATION.
amniotic membranes	The innermost membranous sac that surrounds and protects the developing embryo which is bathed in the AMNIOTIC FLUID. Amnion cells are secretory EPITHELIAL CELLS and contribute to the amniotic fluid.
membrane premature rupture	Spontaneous tearing of the membranes surrounding the FETUS any time before the onset of OBSTETRIC LABOR. Preterm PROM is membrane rupture before 37 weeks of GESTATION.
premature rupture of membranes	Spontaneous tearing of the membranes surrounding the FETUS any time before the onset of OBSTETRIC LABOR. Preterm PROM is membrane rupture before 37 weeks of GESTATION.
polyhydramnios	A condition of abnormally high AMNIOTIC FLUID volume, such as greater than 2,000 ml in the LAST TRIMESTER and usually diagnosed by ultrasonographic criteria (AMNIOTIC FLUID INDEX). It is associated with maternal DIABETES MELLITUS; MULTIPLE PREGNANCY; CHROMOSOMAL DISORDERS; and congenital abnormalities.
amniotomy at delivery	Perforation of fetal membranes to facilitate childbirth.
membrane ruptured	A rupture of the fetal membranes that is not concurrent with or immediately following a digital exam or other transvaginal intervention involving the amniotic membrane.
amnion nodosum	An amnion with nodular deposits of squamous and cellular debris with varying staging of re-epithelialization.
preterm premature rupture of membranes	Spontaneous rupture of fetal membranes that occurs before the onset of labor and before 37 weeks.
artificial rupture of membrane	Perforation of fetal membranes to facilitate childbirth.
amniotic adhesion	Annular constrictions around the digits, limbs, or trunk, occurring congenitally (sometimes causing intrauterine autoamputation) and also associated with a wide variety of disorders. Constrictive amniotic bands are the result of primary amniotic rupture, which can lead to entanglement of fetal tissue (especially limbs) in fibrous amniotic strands. [HPO:probinson]
congenital constriction band	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
prelabor rupture of membranes	Spontaneous tearing of the membranes surrounding the FETUS any time before the onset of OBSTETRIC LABOR. Preterm PROM is membrane rupture before 37 weeks of GESTATION.
excessive liquor	A condition of abnormally high AMNIOTIC FLUID volume, such as greater than 2,000 ml in the LAST TRIMESTER and usually diagnosed by ultrasonographic criteria (AMNIOTIC FLUID INDEX). It is associated with maternal DIABETES MELLITUS; MULTIPLE PREGNANCY; CHROMOSOMAL DISORDERS; and congenital abnormalities.
membranes rupturing	A rupture of the fetal membranes that is not concurrent with or immediately following a digital exam or other transvaginal intervention involving the amniotic membrane.
amniotic constriction band	Annular constrictions around the digits, limbs, or trunk, occurring congenitally (sometimes causing intrauterine autoamputation) and also associated with a wide variety of disorders. Constrictive amniotic bands are the result of primary amniotic rupture, which can lead to entanglement of fetal tissue (especially limbs) in fibrous amniotic strands. [HPO:probinson]
amniotic cavity infection unspecified	Inflammation of the amnion.
placental non-neoplastic disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that arises from the placenta. Representative examples include chorioamnionitis, infarction, and malformations.
pregnancy complications	Conditions or pathological processes associated with pregnancy. They can occur during or after pregnancy, and range from minor discomforts to serious diseases that require medical interventions. They include diseases in pregnant females, and pregnancies in females with diseases.
genito-urinary system	All the organs involved in reproduction and the formation and release of URINE. It includes the kidneys, ureters, BLADDER; URETHRA, and the organs of reproduction - ovaries, UTERUS; FALLOPIAN TUBES; VAGINA; and CLITORIS in women and the testes; SEMINAL VESICLES; PROSTATE; seminal ducts; and PENIS in men.
amnionitides	Inflammation of the amnion.
genitourinary tract	All the organs involved in reproduction and the formation and release of URINE. It includes the kidneys, ureters, BLADDER; URETHRA, and the organs of reproduction - ovaries, UTERUS; FALLOPIAN TUBES; VAGINA; and CLITORIS in women and the testes; SEMINAL VESICLES; PROSTATE; seminal ducts; and PENIS in men.
amniotic cavity infection nos	Inflammation of the amnion.
amniotic infection-unsp	Inflammation of the amnion.
inflammation of amnion	Inflammation of the amnion.
gynecologic body system	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
microbe	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
female reproductive organ system	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
amniotic cavity infection	Inflammation of the amnion.
agents infectious	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
organism	tree section heading term for organisms.
infectiousagent	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
membranitis	INFLAMMATION of the placental membranes (CHORION; AMNION) and connected tissues such as fetal BLOOD VESSELS and UMBILICAL CORD. It is often associated with intrauterine ascending infections during PREGNANCY.
pathol constriction	The condition of an anatomical structure's being constricted beyond normal dimensions.
constriction ring syndrome	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
portion of body solution	Portion of body fluid which consists of water and solutes.
liquor amnii	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
amniotic fluid embolism	Blocking of maternal circulation by AMNIOTIC FLUID that is forced into uterine VEINS by strong UTERINE CONTRACTION near the end of pregnancy. It is characterized by the sudden onset of severe respiratory distress and HYPOTENSION that can lead to maternal DEATH.
amniocentesis abnormal	Abnormality of the amniotic fluid, which is the fluid contained in the amniotic sac surrounding the developing fetus. [HPO:curators]
af - amniotic fluid	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
aspiration of liquor in newborn	Inhalation of fluid from the amniotic sac into the lungs by the neonate.
[d]amniotic fluid abnormal	Abnormality of the amniotic fluid, which is the fluid contained in the amniotic sac surrounding the developing fetus. [HPO:curators]
embryonic fluid	Fluids surrounding or related to an embryo.
human amniotic fluid	A clear, yellowish liquid that envelopes the FETUS inside the sac of AMNION. In the first trimester, it is likely a transudate of maternal or fetal plasma. In the second trimester, amniotic fluid derives primarily from fetal lung and kidney. Cells or substances in this fluid can be removed for prenatal diagnostic tests (AMNIOCENTESIS).
sdtm-spectype	The name and description of a biological specimen.
amobarbital	A barbiturate with hypnotic and sedative properties (but not antianxiety). Adverse effects are mainly a consequence of dose-related CNS depression and the risk of dependence with continued use is high. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p565)
gabaergic modulators	Substances that do not act as agonists or antagonists but do affect the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID receptor-ionophore complex. GABA-A receptors (RECEPTORS, GABA-A) appear to have at least three allosteric sites at which modulators act: a site at which BENZODIAZEPINES act by increasing the opening frequency of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID-activated chloride channels; a site at which BARBITURATES act to prolong the duration of channel opening; and a site at which some steroids may act. GENERAL ANESTHETICS probably act at least partly by potentiating GABAergic responses, but they are not included here.
barbiturate	A class of chemicals derived from barbituric acid or thiobarbituric acid. Many of these are GABA MODULATORS used as HYPNOTICS AND SEDATIVES, as ANESTHETICS, or as ANTICONVULSANTS.
gamma-aminobutyric acid modulators	Substances that do not act as agonists or antagonists but do affect the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID receptor-ionophore complex. GABA-A receptors (RECEPTORS, GABA-A) appear to have at least three allosteric sites at which modulators act: a site at which BENZODIAZEPINES act by increasing the opening frequency of GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID-activated chloride channels; a site at which BARBITURATES act to prolong the duration of channel opening; and a site at which some steroids may act. GENERAL ANESTHETICS probably act at least partly by potentiating GABAergic responses, but they are not included here.
amobarbitale	A barbiturate with hypnotic and sedative properties (but not antianxiety). Adverse effects are mainly a consequence of dose-related CNS depression and the risk of dependence with continued use is high. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p565)
barbiturates	A class of chemicals derived from barbituric acid or thiobarbituric acid. Many of these are GABA MODULATORS used as HYPNOTICS AND SEDATIVES, as ANESTHETICS, or as ANTICONVULSANTS.
amylobarbitone - chemical	A barbiturate with hypnotic and sedative properties (but not antianxiety). Adverse effects are mainly a consequence of dose-related CNS depression and the risk of dependence with continued use is high. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p565)
ambrbtl	The determination of the amount of amobarbital present in a sample.
product containing amobarbital	A barbiturate with hypnotic and sedative properties (but not antianxiety). Adverse effects are mainly a consequence of dose-related CNS depression and the risk of dependence with continued use is high. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p565)
amobarbital measurement	The determination of the amount of amobarbital present in a sample.
anxiety disorder	Persistent and disabling ANXIETY.
dyspnea	Difficult or labored breathing.
liver diseases	Pathological processes of the LIVER.
porphyrin; metabolic disorder	group of disorders characterized by the excessive production of porphyrins or their precursors that arises from abnormalities in the regulation of the porphyrin-heme pathway; acquired porphyrias, which are due to inhibition of enzymes in the metabolic pathway by a drug, toxin or abnormal metabolite, are more common than those which are inherited.
amylobarbitone	A barbiturate with hypnotic and sedative properties (but not antianxiety). Adverse effects are mainly a consequence of dose-related CNS depression and the risk of dependence with continued use is high. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p565)
convulsions	Clinical or subclinical disturbances of cortical function due to a sudden, abnormal, excessive, and disorganized discharge of brain cells. Clinical manifestations include abnormal motor, sensory and psychic phenomena. Recurrent seizures are usually referred to as EPILEPSY or "seizure disorder."
sedative hypnotics	Drugs used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety.
sedatives hypnotics	Drugs used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety.
hypnotics sedatives	Drugs used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety.
amodiaquin	A 4-aminoquinoline compound with anti-inflammatory properties.
antimalarial	Agents used in the treatment of malaria. They are usually classified on the basis of their action against plasmodia at different stages in their life cycle in the human. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1585)
amodiaquine	A 4-aminoquinoline compound with anti-inflammatory properties.
antimalarial product	Agents used in the treatment of malaria. They are usually classified on the basis of their action against plasmodia at different stages in their life cycle in the human. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1585)
antimalarials	Agents used in the treatment of malaria. They are usually classified on the basis of their action against plasmodia at different stages in their life cycle in the human. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1585)
amodiaquina	A 4-aminoquinoline compound with anti-inflammatory properties.
antimalarial agent	Agents used in the treatment of malaria. They are usually classified on the basis of their action against plasmodia at different stages in their life cycle in the human. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1585)
amodiachin	A 4-aminoquinoline compound with anti-inflammatory properties.
amodiaquinum	A 4-aminoquinoline compound with anti-inflammatory properties.
amodiaquine hydrochloride - chemical	The hydrochloride salt of amodiaquine, an orally active 4-aminoquinoline derivative with antimalarial and anti-inflammatory properties. Similar in structure and activity to chloroquine, amodiaquine is effective against some chloroquine-resistant strains, particularly Plasmodium falciparum, the most deadly malaria parasite. Although the mechanism of plasmodicidal action has not been fully elucidated, like other quinoline derivatives, amodiaquine likely is able to inhibit heme polymerase activity in the body. This results in accumulation of free heme, which is toxic to the parasites.
amodiaquine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of amodiaquine, an orally active 4-aminoquinoline derivative with antimalarial and anti-inflammatory properties. Similar in structure and activity to chloroquine, amodiaquine is effective against some chloroquine-resistant strains, particularly Plasmodium falciparum, the most deadly malaria parasite. Although the mechanism of plasmodicidal action has not been fully elucidated, like other quinoline derivatives, amodiaquine likely is able to inhibit heme polymerase activity in the body. This results in accumulation of free heme, which is toxic to the parasites.
anti-malarial	Agents used in the treatment of malaria. They are usually classified on the basis of their action against plasmodia at different stages in their life cycle in the human. (From AMA, Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1585)
amebic protozoa	subphylum of protozoa characterized by the ability to alter their body shape; organisms acquire food by pseudopodia of various types, or by locomotive protoplasmic flow without the production of discrete pseudopodia; flagella, when present, are usually restricted to developmental or other temporary stages.
ameba	A genus of ameboid protozoa. Characteristics include a vesicular nucleus and the formation of several PSEUDOPODIA, one of which is dominant at a given time. Reproduction occurs asexually by binary fission.
genus amoeba	A genus of ameboid protozoa. Characteristics include a vesicular nucleus and the formation of several PSEUDOPODIA, one of which is dominant at a given time. Reproduction occurs asexually by binary fission.
tranylcypromin	A propylamine formed from the cyclization of the side chain of amphetamine. This monoamine oxidase inhibitor is effective in the treatment of major depression, dysthymic disorder, and atypical depression. It also is useful in panic and phobic disorders. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p311)
inhibitors serotonin	Compounds that specifically inhibit the reuptake of serotonin in the brain.
adrenergic uptake inhibitors	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
neurotransm uptake inhib	Drugs that inhibit the transport of neurotransmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. For many transmitters, uptake determines the time course of transmitter action so inhibiting uptake prolongs the activity of the transmitter. Blocking uptake may also deplete available transmitter stores. Many clinically important drugs are uptake inhibitors although the indirect reactions of the brain rather than the acute block of uptake itself is often responsible for the therapeutic effects.
dopaminergic antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
product containing amoxapine	The N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent LOXAPINE that works by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine, serotonin, or both; it also blocks dopamine receptors. Amoxapine is used for the treatment of depression.
neurotransmitter uptake inhibitors	Drugs that inhibit the transport of neurotransmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. For many transmitters, uptake determines the time course of transmitter action so inhibiting uptake prolongs the activity of the transmitter. Blocking uptake may also deplete available transmitter stores. Many clinically important drugs are uptake inhibitors although the indirect reactions of the brain rather than the acute block of uptake itself is often responsible for the therapeutic effects.
serotonin uptake inhibitors	Compounds that specifically inhibit the reuptake of serotonin in the brain.
amoxapin	The N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent LOXAPINE that works by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine, serotonin, or both; it also blocks dopamine receptors. Amoxapine is used for the treatment of depression.
dopamine receptor antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
uptake inhib adren	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
amoxapina	The N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent LOXAPINE that works by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine, serotonin, or both; it also blocks dopamine receptors. Amoxapine is used for the treatment of depression.
tricyclic antidepressant drugs	Substances that contain a fused three-ring moiety and are used in the treatment of depression. These drugs block the uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin into axon terminals and may block some subtypes of serotonin, adrenergic, and histamine receptors. However, the mechanism of their antidepressant effects is not clear because the therapeutic effects usually take weeks to develop and may reflect compensatory changes in the central nervous system.
dopaminergic blocker product	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
anti depressants tricyclic	Substances that contain a fused three-ring moiety and are used in the treatment of depression. These drugs block the uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin into axon terminals and may block some subtypes of serotonin, adrenergic, and histamine receptors. However, the mechanism of their antidepressant effects is not clear because the therapeutic effects usually take weeks to develop and may reflect compensatory changes in the central nervous system.
antidepressive agent [tc]	Mood-stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions. Several MONOAMINE OXIDASE INHIBITORS are useful as antidepressants apparently as a long-term consequence of their modulation of catecholamine levels. The tricyclic compounds useful as antidepressive agents (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) also appear to act through brain catecholamine systems. A third group (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, SECOND-GENERATION) is a diverse group of drugs including some that act specifically on serotonergic systems.
neurosis; depressive	An affective disorder manifested by either a dysphoric mood or loss of interest or pleasure in usual activities. The mood disturbance is prominent and relatively persistent.
amoxapine - chemical	The N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent LOXAPINE that works by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine, serotonin, or both; it also blocks dopamine receptors. Amoxapine is used for the treatment of depression.
amoxepine	The N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent LOXAPINE that works by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine, serotonin, or both; it also blocks dopamine receptors. Amoxapine is used for the treatment of depression.
antidepressant drug tricyclic	Substances that contain a fused three-ring moiety and are used in the treatment of depression. These drugs block the uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin into axon terminals and may block some subtypes of serotonin, adrenergic, and histamine receptors. However, the mechanism of their antidepressant effects is not clear because the therapeutic effects usually take weeks to develop and may reflect compensatory changes in the central nervous system.
uptake inhib neurotransm	Drugs that inhibit the transport of neurotransmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. For many transmitters, uptake determines the time course of transmitter action so inhibiting uptake prolongs the activity of the transmitter. Blocking uptake may also deplete available transmitter stores. Many clinically important drugs are uptake inhibitors although the indirect reactions of the brain rather than the acute block of uptake itself is often responsible for the therapeutic effects.
serotonin reuptake inhibitor	Compounds that specifically inhibit the reuptake of serotonin in the brain.
inhib adren uptake	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
serotonin inhibitor	Compounds that specifically inhibit the reuptake of serotonin in the brain.
dopamine receptor antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate DOPAMINE RECEPTORS, thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists. Many drugs used in the treatment of psychotic disorders (ANTIPSYCHOTIC AGENTS) are dopamine antagonists, although their therapeutic effects may be due to long-term adjustments of the brain rather than to the acute effects of blocking dopamine receptors. Dopamine antagonists have been used for several other clinical purposes including as ANTIEMETICS, in the treatment of Tourette syndrome, and for hiccup. Dopamine receptor blockade is associated with NEUROLEPTIC MALIGNANT SYNDROME.
amoxicillin	A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic similar to AMPICILLIN except that its resistance to gastric acid permits higher serum levels with oral administration.
sarmoxicillin	An amoxicillin prodrug and the methoxymethyl ester of hetamoxicillin with antibacterial activity. Sarmoxicillin is hydrolyzed in vivo by esterases to its active metabolite amoxicillin. Amoxicillin binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This interrupts bacterial cell wall synthesis and results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall, eventually causing cell lysis.
amoxicillin and clavulanate	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
amoxicillin with clavulanic acid	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
amoxycillin + clavulanate	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
amoxycillin	A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic similar to AMPICILLIN except that its resistance to gastric acid permits higher serum levels with oral administration.
amoxicilina	A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic similar to AMPICILLIN except that its resistance to gastric acid permits higher serum levels with oral administration.
acid amoxicillin clavulanic	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
amoxicillin + clavulanate	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
amoxycillin product	A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic similar to AMPICILLIN except that its resistance to gastric acid permits higher serum levels with oral administration.
amoxicillin anhydrous	The anhydrous form of a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic aminopenicillin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Amoxicillin binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This interrupts bacterial cell wall synthesis and results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and causes cell lysis.
amoxicilline	A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic similar to AMPICILLIN except that its resistance to gastric acid permits higher serum levels with oral administration.
human bite	Bites inflicted by humans.
duodenal ulcer	A PEPTIC ULCER located in the DUODENUM.
infection; listeria monocytogenes	gram positive bacterial infection with the genus Listeria including Listeria meningitis which causes clinical manifestations including fever, altered mentation, headache, meningeal signs, focal neurologic signs, and seizures.
sinusitis	Inflammation of the NASAL MUCOSA in one or more of the PARANASAL SINUSES.
urinary tract infectious disease	Inflammatory responses of the epithelium of the URINARY TRACT to microbial invasions. They are often bacterial infections with associated BACTERIURIA and PYURIA.
amoxi clavulanate	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
coamoxiclav	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
product containing amoxicillin and clavulanate	A fixed-ratio combination of amoxicillin trihydrate and potassium clavulanate.
central nervous system stimulant	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
dl-amphetamine	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
dopamine reuptake inhibitor	Drugs that block the transport of DOPAMINE into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. Most of the ADRENERGIC UPTAKE INHIBITORS also inhibit dopamine uptake.
amphetamine sulfate	The sulfate salt form of amphetamine, a synthetic substance related to natural sympathomimetic amines. Amphetamine appears to exert its central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral effects indirectly by inducing the release of biogenic amines from their storage sites in nerve terminals. This agent is a commonly abused psychostimulant drug, which may be snorted, taken orally, smoked, or injected. Amphetamine induces psychologic dependence which is manifested by elevated mood, increased wakefulness, concentration, physical performance and a feeling of well-being. With sustained use, the effects of tachycardia and enhanced alertness diminish while psychotoxic effects such as hallucinations and delusions may occur. (NCI04)
stimulants of cns	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
inhib dopamine uptake	Drugs that block the transport of DOPAMINE into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. Most of the ADRENERGIC UPTAKE INHIBITORS also inhibit dopamine uptake.
amfetamine group	Analogs or derivatives of AMPHETAMINE. Many are sympathomimetics and central nervous system stimulators causing excitation, vasopressin, bronchodilation, and to varying degrees, anorexia, analepsis, nasal decongestion, and some smooth muscle relaxation.
cns stimulant	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
dopamine drugs	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
amphetamine product	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
central nervous system stimulants	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
reuptake inhib dopamine	Drugs that block the transport of DOPAMINE into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. Most of the ADRENERGIC UPTAKE INHIBITORS also inhibit dopamine uptake.
product containing amfetamine	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
product containing dopamine reuptake inhibitor	Drugs that block the transport of DOPAMINE into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. Most of the ADRENERGIC UPTAKE INHIBITORS also inhibit dopamine uptake.
central stimulant	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
amphetamine aspartate	The aspartate salt of amphetamine, a sympathomimetic amine with CNS stimulating properties. Amphetamine acts by facilitating the release of catecholamines, particularly noradrenaline and dopamine, from nerve terminals in the brain and inhibiting their uptake. Physiological effects include an increase in motor activity, euphoria, increased mental alertness, excitatory behavior, and appetite suppression.
amphetamines	Analogs or derivatives of AMPHETAMINE. Many are sympathomimetics and central nervous system stimulators causing excitation, vasopressin, bronchodilation, and to varying degrees, anorexia, analepsis, nasal decongestion, and some smooth muscle relaxation.
dl-amphetamine sulfate	The sulfate salt form of amphetamine, a synthetic substance related to natural sympathomimetic amines. Amphetamine appears to exert its central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral effects indirectly by inducing the release of biogenic amines from their storage sites in nerve terminals. This agent is a commonly abused psychostimulant drug, which may be snorted, taken orally, smoked, or injected. Amphetamine induces psychologic dependence which is manifested by elevated mood, increased wakefulness, concentration, physical performance and a feeling of well-being. With sustained use, the effects of tachycardia and enhanced alertness diminish while psychotoxic effects such as hallucinations and delusions may occur. (NCI04)
rac-amphetamine	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
dexamfetamine	The d-form of AMPHETAMINE. It is a central nervous system stimulant and a sympathomimetic. It has also been used in the treatment of narcolepsy and of attention deficit disorders and hyperactivity in children. Dextroamphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulating release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. It is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic.
dexamfetamine product	The d-form of AMPHETAMINE. It is a central nervous system stimulant and a sympathomimetic. It has also been used in the treatment of narcolepsy and of attention deficit disorders and hyperactivity in children. Dextroamphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulating release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. It is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic.
phenmetrazinum	A sympathomimetic drug used primarily as an appetite depressant. Its actions and mechanisms are similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
phendimetrazine tartrate	A phenylalkylamine sympathomimetic amine with appetite depressant property. Phendimetrazine tartrate is a prodrug that is hydrolyzed to the active metabolite phenmetrazine, which competes with norepinephrine and dopamine for their presynaptic transporters, thereby blocks the reuptake of these monoamines at the neuronal junctions. As a result, this prolongs activities of dopamine and norepinephrine and leads to central nervous system (CNS) stimulation and metabolic effects, including appetite-suppression, decreased gastric acid secretion and increased blood pressure.
central stimulants	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
amphetamine level	The determination of the amount of amphetamine present in a sample.
amfetamine product	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
amfetamina	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
organic compounds	A broad class of substances containing carbon and its derivatives. Many of these chemicals will frequently contain hydrogen with or without oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, and other elements. They exist in either carbon chain or carbon ring form.
fenfluramine	A centrally active drug that apparently both blocks serotonin uptake and provokes transport-mediated serotonin release.
speed	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
amphetamine + dextroamphetamine	A combination of two synthetic agents with central nervous system stimulant activity. Both agents are non-catecholamine, sympathomimetic agents that elevate blood pressure and cause bronchodilation. These agents are commonly abused psychostimulant drugs that induce psychologic dependence manifested by elevated mood, increased wakefulness, concentration, physical performance and a feeling of well-being. Tolerance to various effects develops unequally, so that tachycardia and enhanced alertness diminish while psychotoxic effects (hallucinations and delusions) may occur. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C26643" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C26643" NCI Thesaurus)
substituted amphetamine product	Class of chemicals that are analogs or derivatives of 1-phenylpropan-2-amine, including synthetic and naturally occurring amphetamines.
drug screen amphetamines	The determination of the amount of amphetamine present in a sample.
amphetamine measurement	The determination of the amount of amphetamine present in a sample.
substituted amfetamine product	Class of chemicals that are analogs or derivatives of 1-phenylpropan-2-amine, including synthetic and naturally occurring amphetamines.
clorfentermina	A sympathomimetic agent that was formerly used as an anorectic. It has properties similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. It has been implicated in lipid storage disorders and pulmonary hypertension. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1223)
amfepramone	A appetite depressant considered to produce less central nervous system disturbance than most drugs in this therapeutic category. It is also considered to be among the safest for patients with hypertension. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2290)
metamfetamine	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
product containing methamphetamine	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
phenmetraline	A sympathomimetic drug used primarily as an appetite depressant. Its actions and mechanisms are similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
stimulant	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
substituted amfetamine	Class of chemicals that are analogs or derivatives of 1-phenylpropan-2-amine, including synthetic and naturally occurring amphetamines.
amphetamine addiction	Addiction to amphetamine or dextroamphetamine. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:28790493]
hyperkinetic syndrome nos	A behavior disorder originating in childhood in which the essential features are signs of developmentally inappropriate inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity. Although most individuals have symptoms of both inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity, one or the other pattern may be predominant. The disorder is more frequent in males than females. Onset is in childhood. Symptoms often attenuate during late adolescence although a minority experience the full complement of symptoms into mid-adulthood. (From DSM-V)
analeptic agent	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
phenopromin	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
sympathomimetic drugs	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
phenelzine sulfate	A hydrazine derivative and a potent non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor with anxiolytic and antidepressant properties. Phenelzine sulfate irreversibly binds to MAO, thereby blocking the oxidative deamination of monoamines resulting in an increased concentration of biogenic amines and a concurrent decrease in catabolism of monoamine neurotransmitters, norepinephrine and serotonin, in the brain. In addition, through its primary metabolite phenylethylidenehyrazine (PEH), phenelzine causes elevated GABA levels in the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens thereby exerting its anxiolytic effects.
anorexics amphetamines	Analogs or derivatives of AMPHETAMINE. Many are sympathomimetics and central nervous system stimulators causing excitation, vasopressin, bronchodilation, and to varying degrees, anorexia, analepsis, nasal decongestion, and some smooth muscle relaxation.
pimozide	A diphenylbutylpiperidine that is effective as an antipsychotic agent and as an alternative to HALOPERIDOL for the suppression of vocal and motor tics in patients with Tourette syndrome. Although the precise mechanism of action is unknown, blockade of postsynaptic dopamine receptors has been postulated. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p403)
adderall	a drug used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
anorexic	Agents that are used to suppress appetite.
amphetamine group	Analogs or derivatives of AMPHETAMINE. Many are sympathomimetics and central nervous system stimulators causing excitation, vasopressin, bronchodilation, and to varying degrees, anorexia, analepsis, nasal decongestion, and some smooth muscle relaxation.
diethylpropion	A appetite depressant considered to produce less central nervous system disturbance than most drugs in this therapeutic category. It is also considered to be among the safest for patients with hypertension. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2290)
phenmetrazine	A sympathomimetic drug used primarily as an appetite depressant. Its actions and mechanisms are similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
lisdexamfetamine product	A prodrug of the d-isomer of amphetamine, a non-catecholamine sympathomimetic amine with central nervous system (CNS) stimulating activity. Upon administration, lisdexamphetamine is converted to dextroamphetamine through cleavage of the lysine group. Dextroamphetamine acts by facilitating the release of catecholamines, particularly noradrenaline and dopamine, from its storage sites in nerve terminals in the CNS, and inhibits their uptake within the mesocorticolimbic system, a major component of the brain reward system, resulting in measurable behavioral changes such as euphoria, mental alertness and excitement and appetite suppression. As a CNS stimulant, this agent may increase blood pressure.
stimulants	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
phenterminum	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. It has been used most frequently in the treatment of obesity.
amphetamine-induced organic mental disorder	Disorders related or resulting from use of amphetamines.
amphetamine dependence	Addiction to amphetamine or dextroamphetamine. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:28790493]
amphibian	cold blooded chordates; larva are usually aquatic, breathing by gills; adults are terrestrial or aquatic, breathing by lungs and through moist glandular skin.
vertebrate	Animals having a vertebral column, members of the phylum Chordata, subphylum Craniata comprising mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.
cold-blooded amphibian animal	cold blooded chordates; larva are usually aquatic, breathing by gills; adults are terrestrial or aquatic, breathing by lungs and through moist glandular skin.
order caudata	order of Amphibia which includes salamanders and newts.
amphibia	cold blooded chordates; larva are usually aquatic, breathing by gills; adults are terrestrial or aquatic, breathing by lungs and through moist glandular skin.
amphibians	cold blooded chordates; larva are usually aquatic, breathing by gills; adults are terrestrial or aquatic, breathing by lungs and through moist glandular skin.
urodela	order of Amphibia which includes salamanders and newts.
class amphibia	cold blooded chordates; larva are usually aquatic, breathing by gills; adults are terrestrial or aquatic, breathing by lungs and through moist glandular skin.
vertebrata <vertebrates>	Animals having a vertebral column, members of the phylum Chordata, subphylum Craniata comprising mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.
salientia	one of the three orders of extant amphibians, comprising the frogs and toads.
vertebrata	Animals having a vertebral column, members of the phylum Chordata, subphylum Craniata comprising mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.
cold-blooded animal	Animals which have a body temperature which is largely controlled by external factors of the environment.
amphibian venom	Venoms produced by frogs, toads, salamanders, etc. The venom glands are usually on the skin of the back and contain cardiotoxic glycosides, cholinolytics, and a number of other bioactive materials, many of which have been characterized. The venoms have been used as arrow poisons and include bufogenin, bufotoxin, bufagin, bufotalin, histrionicotoxins, and pumiliotoxin.
venom	A toxin used by animals and injected into their victims by a bite or sting
amphotericin b - deoxycholate	The deoxycholate salt of amphotericin B, a polyene antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus, with antifungal activity. Amphotericin B binds to ergosterol, an essential component of the fungal cell membrane, resulting in depolarization of the membrane; alterations in cell membrane permeability and leakage of important intracellular components; and cell rupture. This agent may also induce oxidative damage in fungal cells and has been reported to stimulate host immune cells. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C62201" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C62201" NCI Thesaurus)
product containing amphotericin b	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
antifungal	Substances that destroy fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce. They differ from FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL because they defend against fungi present in human or animal tissues.
amphotericinum b	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
antifungal agent	Substances that destroy fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce. They differ from FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL because they defend against fungi present in human or animal tissues.
amphotericin	Any formulation containing amphotericin B as the active agent for the treatment of fungal infections.
product containing amphotericin b liposome	A liposome-encapsulated formulation of the polyene antifungal antibiotic amphotericin B produced by the bacterium Streptomyces nodosus with antifungal activity. Amphotericin B binds to ergosterol, an essential component of the fungal cell membrane, and alters cell membrane integrity, resulting in leakage of intracellular components and cell rupture. This agent may also induce oxidative damage in fungal cells and has been reported to stimulate host immune cells. Compared to amphotericin B alone, liposomal delivery of amphotericin B allows for a greater drug concentration in target tissues while decreasing systemic side effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1566" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1566" NCI Thesaurus)
liposomal amphotericin b	A liposome-encapsulated formulation of the polyene antifungal antibiotic amphotericin B produced by the bacterium Streptomyces nodosus with antifungal activity. Amphotericin B binds to ergosterol, an essential component of the fungal cell membrane, and alters cell membrane integrity, resulting in leakage of intracellular components and cell rupture. This agent may also induce oxidative damage in fungal cells and has been reported to stimulate host immune cells. Compared to amphotericin B alone, liposomal delivery of amphotericin B allows for a greater drug concentration in target tissues while decreasing systemic side effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1566" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1566" NCI Thesaurus)
antifungal agents	Substances that destroy fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce. They differ from FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL because they defend against fungi present in human or animal tissues.
antiprotozoal agent [tc]	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
drugs fungicidal	Substances that destroy fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce. They differ from FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL because they defend against fungi present in human or animal tissues.
amphotericin - chemical	Any formulation containing amphotericin B as the active agent for the treatment of fungal infections.
liposomal amphotericin	A liposome-encapsulated formulation of the polyene antifungal antibiotic amphotericin B produced by the bacterium Streptomyces nodosus with antifungal activity. Amphotericin B binds to ergosterol, an essential component of the fungal cell membrane, and alters cell membrane integrity, resulting in leakage of intracellular components and cell rupture. This agent may also induce oxidative damage in fungal cells and has been reported to stimulate host immune cells. Compared to amphotericin B alone, liposomal delivery of amphotericin B allows for a greater drug concentration in target tissues while decreasing systemic side effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1566" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1566" NCI Thesaurus)
l-amb	A liposome-encapsulated formulation of the polyene antifungal antibiotic amphotericin B produced by the bacterium Streptomyces nodosus with antifungal activity. Amphotericin B binds to ergosterol, an essential component of the fungal cell membrane, and alters cell membrane integrity, resulting in leakage of intracellular components and cell rupture. This agent may also induce oxidative damage in fungal cells and has been reported to stimulate host immune cells. Compared to amphotericin B alone, liposomal delivery of amphotericin B allows for a greater drug concentration in target tissues while decreasing systemic side effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1566" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1566" NCI Thesaurus)
amph-b	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
amphotericin b liposomes	A liposome-encapsulated formulation of the polyene antifungal antibiotic amphotericin B produced by the bacterium Streptomyces nodosus with antifungal activity. Amphotericin B binds to ergosterol, an essential component of the fungal cell membrane, and alters cell membrane integrity, resulting in leakage of intracellular components and cell rupture. This agent may also induce oxidative damage in fungal cells and has been reported to stimulate host immune cells. Compared to amphotericin B alone, liposomal delivery of amphotericin B allows for a greater drug concentration in target tissues while decreasing systemic side effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1566" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1566" NCI Thesaurus)
amphotericin b liposomal	A liposome-encapsulated formulation of the polyene antifungal antibiotic amphotericin B produced by the bacterium Streptomyces nodosus with antifungal activity. Amphotericin B binds to ergosterol, an essential component of the fungal cell membrane, and alters cell membrane integrity, resulting in leakage of intracellular components and cell rupture. This agent may also induce oxidative damage in fungal cells and has been reported to stimulate host immune cells. Compared to amphotericin B alone, liposomal delivery of amphotericin B allows for a greater drug concentration in target tissues while decreasing systemic side effects. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1566" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1566" NCI Thesaurus)
therapeutic fungicides	Substances that destroy fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce. They differ from FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL because they defend against fungi present in human or animal tissues.
aspergillus infections	Infections with fungi of the genus ASPERGILLUS.
moniliasis skin	Candidiasis of the skin manifested as eczema-like lesions of the interdigital spaces, perleche, or chronic paronychia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
amphotéricine b	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
histoplasmosis	Infection resulting from exposure to the fungus HISTOPLASMA. It is worldwide in distribution and particularly common in the central and eastern states, especially areas around the Ohio and Mississippi River valleys.
fungus infection	Diseases caused by FUNGI.
peritonitis	INFLAMMATION of the PERITONEUM lining the ABDOMINAL CAVITY as the result of infectious, autoimmune, or chemical processes. Primary peritonitis is due to infection of the PERITONEAL CAVITY via hematogenous or lymphatic spread and without intra-abdominal source. Secondary peritonitis arises from the ABDOMINAL CAVITY itself through RUPTURE or ABSCESS of intra-abdominal organs.
polyenes	Hydrocarbons with more than one double bond. They are a reduced form of POLYYNES.
sporotrichosis nos	The commonest and least serious of the deep mycoses, characterized by nodular lesions of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues. It is caused by inhalation of contaminated dust or by infection of a wound with SPOROTHRIX.
zygomycosis	Infection in humans and animals caused by fungi in the class Zygomycetes. It includes MUCORMYCOSIS and entomophthoramycosis. The latter is a tropical infection of subcutaneous tissue or paranasal sinuses caused by fungi in the order Entomophthorales. Phycomycosis, closely related to zygomycosis, describes infection with members of Phycomycetes, an obsolete classification.
fungemia	The presence of fungi circulating in the blood. Opportunistic fungal sepsis is seen most often in immunosuppressed patients with severe neutropenia or in postoperative patients with intravenous catheters and usually follows prolonged antibiotic therapy.
cryptococcal meningitis	Meningeal inflammation produced by CRYPTOCOCCUS NEOFORMANS, an encapsulated yeast that tends to infect individuals with ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME and other immunocompromised states. The organism enters the body through the respiratory tract, but symptomatic infections are usually limited to the lungs and nervous system. The organism may also produce parenchymal brain lesions (torulomas). Clinically, the course is subacute and may feature HEADACHE; NAUSEA; PHOTOPHOBIA; focal neurologic deficits; SEIZURES; cranial neuropathies; and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp721-2)
aids relat opportunistic infect	Opportunistic infections found in patients who test positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The most common include PNEUMOCYSTIS PNEUMONIA, Kaposi's sarcoma, cryptosporidiosis, herpes simplex, toxoplasmosis, cryptococcosis, and infections with Mycobacterium avium complex, Microsporidium, and Cytomegalovirus.
antifungals	Substances that destroy fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce. They differ from FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL because they defend against fungi present in human or animal tissues.
amphotericin b product	Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
ampicillin product	Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
bacampicillin	A prodrug of ampicillin, a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic, beta-lactam aminopenicillin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Bacampicillin is hydrolyzed in vivo by esterases to its active metabolite ampicillin. Ampicillin binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This interrupts bacterial cell wall synthesis and results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and causes cell lysis.
ampicillin- and sulbactam-containing product	A combination formulation of the sodium salts of the antibiotic ampicillin and the beta-lactamase inhibitor sulbactam with antibacterial activity. Ampicillin, a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic penicillin, binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, thereby interfering with the cross-linking of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. As a result, the cell wall is weakened and the cell lyses. The sulbactam component irreversibly binds to bacterial beta-lactamase at or near its active site, thereby interfering with substrate binding and inhibiting bacterial metabolism of penicillin and cephalosporin beta-lactam antibiotics, effectively extending their antibiotic spectrum to include many beta-lactam-resistant bacteria.
sultamicillin	A combination formulation of the sodium salts of the antibiotic ampicillin and the beta-lactamase inhibitor sulbactam with antibacterial activity. Ampicillin, a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic penicillin, binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, thereby interfering with the cross-linking of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. As a result, the cell wall is weakened and the cell lyses. The sulbactam component irreversibly binds to bacterial beta-lactamase at or near its active site, thereby interfering with substrate binding and inhibiting bacterial metabolism of penicillin and cephalosporin beta-lactam antibiotics, effectively extending their antibiotic spectrum to include many beta-lactam-resistant bacteria.
ampicillins	Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
ampicillin with sulbactam	A combination formulation of the sodium salts of the antibiotic ampicillin and the beta-lactamase inhibitor sulbactam with antibacterial activity. Ampicillin, a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic penicillin, binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, thereby interfering with the cross-linking of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. As a result, the cell wall is weakened and the cell lyses. The sulbactam component irreversibly binds to bacterial beta-lactamase at or near its active site, thereby interfering with substrate binding and inhibiting bacterial metabolism of penicillin and cephalosporin beta-lactam antibiotics, effectively extending their antibiotic spectrum to include many beta-lactam-resistant bacteria.
ampicillin + sulbactam	A combination formulation of the sodium salts of the antibiotic ampicillin and the beta-lactamase inhibitor sulbactam with antibacterial activity. Ampicillin, a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic penicillin, binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, thereby interfering with the cross-linking of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. As a result, the cell wall is weakened and the cell lyses. The sulbactam component irreversibly binds to bacterial beta-lactamase at or near its active site, thereby interfering with substrate binding and inhibiting bacterial metabolism of penicillin and cephalosporin beta-lactam antibiotics, effectively extending their antibiotic spectrum to include many beta-lactam-resistant bacteria.
ampicilline	Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
other bacterial infection	Infections by bacteria, general or unspecified.
allergy to drug	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
e coli infect	Infections with bacteria of the species ESCHERICHIA COLI.
gonorrhea	Acute infectious disease characterized by primary invasion of the urogenital tract. The etiologic agent, NEISSERIA GONORRHOEAE, was isolated by Neisser in 1879.
product containing ampicillin	Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
pneumococcal diseases	Infections with bacteria of the species STREPTOCOCCUS PNEUMONIAE.
salmonelloses	Infections with bacteria of the genus SALMONELLA.
infection urinary tract	Inflammatory responses of the epithelium of the URINARY TRACT to microbial invasions. They are often bacterial infections with associated BACTERIURIA and PYURIA.
aminobenzyl penicillin	Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
dysentery bacillary	DYSENTERY caused by gram-negative rod-shaped enteric bacteria (ENTEROBACTERIACEAE), most often by the genus SHIGELLA. Shigella dysentery, Shigellosis, is classified into subgroups according to syndrome severity and the infectious species. Group A: SHIGELLA DYSENTERIAE (severest); Group B: SHIGELLA FLEXNERI; Group C: SHIGELLA BOYDII; and Group D: SHIGELLA SONNEI (mildest).
ampicilina	Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
ampicillin and sulbactam	A combination formulation of the sodium salts of the antibiotic ampicillin and the beta-lactamase inhibitor sulbactam with antibacterial activity. Ampicillin, a broad-spectrum, semisynthetic penicillin, binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall, thereby interfering with the cross-linking of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. As a result, the cell wall is weakened and the cell lyses. The sulbactam component irreversibly binds to bacterial beta-lactamase at or near its active site, thereby interfering with substrate binding and inhibiting bacterial metabolism of penicillin and cephalosporin beta-lactam antibiotics, effectively extending their antibiotic spectrum to include many beta-lactam-resistant bacteria.
amprolium	A veterinary coccidiostat that interferes with THIAMINE metabolism.
coccidiostat	Agents useful in the treatment or prevention of COCCIDIOSIS in man or animals.
coccidiostat product	Agents useful in the treatment or prevention of COCCIDIOSIS in man or animals.
anti-coccidiosis agent	Agents useful in the treatment or prevention of COCCIDIOSIS in man or animals.
amputation_type	The removal of a limb or other appendage or outgrowth of the body. (Dorland, 28th ed)
disarticulation	Amputation or separation at a joint. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation	The removal of a limb or other appendage or outgrowth of the body. (Dorland, 28th ed)
apicoectomy	Excision of the apical portion of a tooth through an opening made in the overlying labial, buccal, or palatal alveolar bone. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation op. nos	The removal of a limb or other appendage or outgrowth of the body. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation of the foot	The surgical removal of all or part of the foot.
amputation of penis	Surgery to remove part or all of the penis (an external male reproductive organ).
trachelectomies	Surgery to remove the cervix (the end of the uterus that forms a canal between the uterus and the vagina).The upper part of the vagina and certain pelvic lymph nodes may also be removed.
amputation nos	The removal of a limb or other appendage or outgrowth of the body. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation care	Promotion of physical and psychological healing before and after amputation of a body part
amputation - action	The removal of a limb or other appendage or outgrowth of the body. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation through joint - action	Amputation or separation at a joint. (Dorland, 28th ed)
sr - surgical removal	Remoción realizada con un instrumento cortante
amputation of thigh through femur	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
amputation of thigh	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
below knee amputation	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
root amputation	Excision of the apical portion of a tooth through an opening made in the overlying labial, buccal, or palatal alveolar bone. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation of tooth root	Excision of the apical portion of a tooth through an opening made in the overlying labial, buccal, or palatal alveolar bone. (Dorland, 28th ed)
hindquarter amputation	Amputation of a lower limb through the sacroiliac joint.
abdominopelvic amputation	Amputation of a lower limb through the sacroiliac joint.
hemipelvectomy	Amputation of a lower limb through the sacroiliac joint.
amputation of toe	The surgical removal of a toe.
amputations	The removal of a limb or other appendage or outgrowth of the body. (Dorland, 28th ed)
toe amputation	The surgical removal of a toe.
amputation foot	The surgical removal of all or part of the foot.
foot amputation	The surgical removal of all or part of the foot.
amputation of foot	The surgical removal of all or part of the foot.
resection of penis	Surgery to remove part or all of the penis (an external male reproductive organ).
penectomy	Surgery to remove part or all of the penis (an external male reproductive organ).
removal of cervix	Surgery to remove the cervix (the end of the uterus that forms a canal between the uterus and the vagina).The upper part of the vagina and certain pelvic lymph nodes may also be removed.
cervix: excision	Surgery to remove the cervix (the end of the uterus that forms a canal between the uterus and the vagina).The upper part of the vagina and certain pelvic lymph nodes may also be removed.
cervicectomy	Surgery to remove the cervix (the end of the uterus that forms a canal between the uterus and the vagina).The upper part of the vagina and certain pelvic lymph nodes may also be removed.
transmetatarsal amputation of foot	A surgical procedure in which all or part of the distal foot is removed distal to the tarsometatarsal joint(s).
amputation thru metatarsal	A surgical procedure in which all or part of the distal foot is removed distal to the tarsometatarsal joint(s).
amputation through foot	A surgical procedure in which all or part of the distal foot is removed distal to the tarsometatarsal joint(s).
amputation through metatarsal bones	A surgical procedure in which all or part of the distal foot is removed distal to the tarsometatarsal joint(s).
amputation of leg through foot	A surgical procedure in which all or part of the distal foot is removed distal to the tarsometatarsal joint(s).
amputation foot - mid-tarsal	A surgical procedure in which all or part of the distal foot is removed distal to the tarsometatarsal joint(s).
amputation of leg through femur	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
amputation above knee	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
amputation;below knee	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
trans-tibiofibular amputation of lower leg	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
root amputation - per root	Excision of the apical portion of a tooth through an opening made in the overlying labial, buccal, or palatal alveolar bone. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation procedure	The removal of a limb or other appendage or outgrowth of the body. (Dorland, 28th ed)
amputation toes	The surgical removal of a toe.
amputation;foot	The surgical removal of all or part of the foot.
trachelectomy	Surgery to remove the cervix (the end of the uterus that forms a canal between the uterus and the vagina).The upper part of the vagina and certain pelvic lymph nodes may also be removed.
surgery foot amputation transmetatarsal	A surgical procedure in which all or part of the distal foot is removed distal to the tarsometatarsal joint(s).
amputation of toe nos	The surgical removal of a toe.
amputation of cervix	Surgery to remove the cervix (the end of the uterus that forms a canal between the uterus and the vagina).The upper part of the vagina and certain pelvic lymph nodes may also be removed.
phantom pain	A disorder characterized by marked discomfort related to a limb or an organ that is removed from or is not physically part of the body.
disarticulation - action	Amputation or separation at a joint. (Dorland, 28th ed)
above knee amputation	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
amputation of lower leg	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
amputation - through involved bone	An amputation through the diseased portion of the bone.
surgical procedure by method	A categorization of surgical procedures based on surgical techniques.
not reported	Not provided or available.
resection of innominate bone	Resection of part or all of the innominate bone with preservation of the lower extremity.
annex f	Terms/codes for describing the consequences of the medical device adverse event/incident on the person affected used by the CDRH.
ews variable terminology	Terms that have been designated as being a variable within the PCDC Terminology and EWS project.
ews biopsy/surgical procedures table	Terminology created by EVS and PCDC to support the EWS Biopsy/Surgical Procedures Table.
limb surgery	Surgical procedures on a limb.
external hemipelvectomy	Unilateral removal of the pelvic girdle by resection of the innominate bone plus amputation of the ipsilateral limb.
stumps	The part of a limb or tail following amputation that is proximal to the amputated section.
phantom limb syndrome	Perception of painful and nonpainful phantom sensations that occur following the complete or partial loss of a limb. The majority of individuals with an amputated extremity will experience the impression that the limb is still present, and in many cases, painful. (From Neurol Clin 1998 Nov;16(4):919-36; Brain 1998 Sep;121(Pt 9):1603-30)
stump	The part of a limb or tail following amputation that is proximal to the amputated section.
limbs phantom	Perception of painful and nonpainful phantom sensations that occur following the complete or partial loss of a limb. The majority of individuals with an amputated extremity will experience the impression that the limb is still present, and in many cases, painful. (From Neurol Clin 1998 Nov;16(4):919-36; Brain 1998 Sep;121(Pt 9):1603-30)
amputation stump	The part of a limb or tail following amputation that is proximal to the amputated section.
pseudomelias	Perception of painful and nonpainful phantom sensations that occur following the complete or partial loss of a limb. The majority of individuals with an amputated extremity will experience the impression that the limb is still present, and in many cases, painful. (From Neurol Clin 1998 Nov;16(4):919-36; Brain 1998 Sep;121(Pt 9):1603-30)
neuroma of amputation stump	A neuroma that occurs at the site of an amputation.
phantom limb syndrome without pain	Awareness of external senses of the limb after physical loss.
stumped	The part of a limb or tail following amputation that is proximal to the amputated section.
phantom sensation	Awareness of external senses of the limb after physical loss.
pain phantom	Perception of painful and nonpainful phantom sensations that occur following the complete or partial loss of a limb. The majority of individuals with an amputated extremity will experience the impression that the limb is still present, and in many cases, painful. (From Neurol Clin 1998 Nov;16(4):919-36; Brain 1998 Sep;121(Pt 9):1603-30)
phantom sensations	Perception of painful and nonpainful phantom sensations that occur following the complete or partial loss of a limb. The majority of individuals with an amputated extremity will experience the impression that the limb is still present, and in many cases, painful. (From Neurol Clin 1998 Nov;16(4):919-36; Brain 1998 Sep;121(Pt 9):1603-30)
neuroma amputation	A neuroma that occurs at the site of an amputation.
stumping	The part of a limb or tail following amputation that is proximal to the amputated section.
vascular surgeon	A surgeon with expertise in the management of surgical disorders of the blood vessels, excluding the intracranial vessels or the heart.
above-knee amputation	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
allopathic & osteopathic physicians; surgery	A general surgeon has expertise related to the diagnosis - preoperative, operative and postoperative management - and management of complications of surgical conditions in the following areas: alimentary tract; abdomen; breast, skin and soft tissue; endocrine system; head and neck surgery; pediatric surgery; surgical critical care; surgical oncology; trauma and burns; and vascular surgery. General surgeons increasingly provide care through the use of minimally invasive and endoscopic techniques. Many general surgeons also possess expertise in transplantation surgery, plastic surgery and cardiothoracic surgery.
above amputations knee	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
limb structure	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with a complete set of bones of the appendicular skeleton, it is partially surrounded by skin of limb. Examples: There are only four instances, right upper and lower limbs and left upper and lower limbs.
amputations transfemoral	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
lower extremity	The region of the lower limb in animals, extending from the gluteal region to the FOOT, and including the BUTTOCKS; HIP; and LEG.
supracondylar above-knee amputation	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
kirk amputation of thigh	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
lower limb	The region of the lower limb in animals, extending from the gluteal region to the FOOT, and including the BUTTOCKS; HIP; and LEG.
amputation;above knee	Surgical removal of all or part of the leg, made at any point of the femur.
bka - below knee amputation	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
tibias	The second longest bone of the skeleton. It is located on the medial side of the lower leg, articulating with the FIBULA laterally, the TALUS distally, and the FEMUR proximally.
crural region	The inferior part of the lower extremity between the KNEE and the ANKLE.
amputation below-knee	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
amputation below knee	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
fibular	The bone of the lower leg lateral to and smaller than the tibia. In proportion to its length, it is the most slender of the long bones.
amputation of leg below knee	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
fibula	The bone of the lower leg lateral to and smaller than the tibia. In proportion to its length, it is the most slender of the long bones.
below-knee amputation	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
tibia	The second longest bone of the skeleton. It is located on the medial side of the lower leg, articulating with the FIBULA laterally, the TALUS distally, and the FEMUR proximally.
amputation leg through tibia&fibula	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
bone structure of shin bone	The second longest bone of the skeleton. It is located on the medial side of the lower leg, articulating with the FIBULA laterally, the TALUS distally, and the FEMUR proximally.
division - action	An incision that separates something into two or more parts
excision of bone	The surgical removal of all or part of a bone.
amputations below knee	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
shinbone	The second longest bone of the skeleton. It is located on the medial side of the lower leg, articulating with the FIBULA laterally, the TALUS distally, and the FEMUR proximally.
shin bone	The second longest bone of the skeleton. It is located on the medial side of the lower leg, articulating with the FIBULA laterally, the TALUS distally, and the FEMUR proximally.
med: amputation-below knee	The surgical removal of part or all of leg that is below the knee.
dividing procedure	An incision that separates something into two or more parts
traumatic amputated structure	Loss of a limb or other bodily appendage by accidental injury.
unspecified injury	damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force, with or without disruption of structural continuity.
traumatic amputation	Loss of a limb or other bodily appendage by accidental injury.
musculoskeletal injury	Damage to the muscles, bones and their supportive structural attachments.
amputation; traumatic	Loss of a limb or other bodily appendage by accidental injury.
injury	damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force, with or without disruption of structural continuity.
traumatic amputation nos	Loss of a limb or other bodily appendage by accidental injury.
injury - disorder	damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force, with or without disruption of structural continuity.
amputee	A person who has had one or more limbs removed by amputation.
artificial limbs	<p>People can lose all or part of an arm or leg for a number of reasons. Common ones include</p> <ul> <li>Circulation problems from atherosclerosis or diabetes. They may cause you to need an <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/limbloss.html">amputation</a>.</li> <li>Traumatic injuries, including from traffic accidents and military combat</li> <li>Cancer</li> <li>Birth defects</li> </ul> <p>If you are missing an arm or leg, an artificial limb can sometimes replace it. The device, which is called a prosthesis, can help you to perform daily activities such as walking, eating, or dressing. Some artificial limbs let you function nearly as well as before. </p>
musculo-skeletal system	The MUSCLES, bones (BONE AND BONES), and CARTILAGE of the body.
amputees	A person who has had one or more limbs removed by amputation.
unspecified musculoskeletal problem	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory rest results related to the muscles and bones.
ampyrone	A metabolite of AMINOPYRINE with analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties. It is used as a reagent for biochemical reactions producing peroxides or phenols. Ampyrone stimulates LIVER MICROSOMES and is also used to measure extracellular water.
aminoantipyrine	A metabolite of AMINOPYRINE with analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties. It is used as a reagent for biochemical reactions producing peroxides or phenols. Ampyrone stimulates LIVER MICROSOMES and is also used to measure extracellular water.
amrinone	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
milrinone lactate	A bipyridine agent with positive inotropic and vasodilator properties. Milrinone lactate selectively inhibits fraction III cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) phosphodiesterase isozymes in the heart and vascular muscles, thereby increasing cAMP and, consequently, an increase in cAMP-dependent intracellular ionized calcium and myocardium contractile force, and vasodilation in arteriolar and venous vascular smooth muscle. This agent improves hemodynamics in patients with ventricular dysfunction by increasing the stroke volume index and left ventricular contractility and by producing pulmonary vasodilation. (NCI04)
amrinon	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
inamrinone	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
calcium channel blockers	A class of drugs that act by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cellular membranes.
amrinona	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
imamrinone	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
product containing amrinone	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
product containing inamrinone	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
phosphoric diester hydrolase inhibitors	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
insufficiency; aortic	Pathological condition characterized by the backflow of blood from the ASCENDING AORTA back into the LEFT VENTRICLE, leading to regurgitation. It is caused by diseases of the AORTIC VALVE or its surrounding tissue (aortic root).
cardiac agent	Agents that affect the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction, blood vessel diameter, or blood volume.
amrinonum	A positive inotropic cardiotonic (CARDIOTONIC AGENTS) with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell.
cardiac failure	inability of the heart to pump blood at an adequate rate to fill tissue metabolic requirements or the ability to do so only at an elevated filling pressure.
pulmonic insufficiency	Backflow of blood from the PULMONARY ARTERY into the RIGHT VENTRICLE due to imperfect closure of the PULMONARY VALVE.
[d]cardiogenic shock	Shock resulting from diminution of cardiac output in heart disease.
meta-amsa	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
cancer chemotherapy agents	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
amsacrine	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
asulacrine	An amsacrine analogue with antineoplastic properties. Asulacrine inhibits the enzyme topoisomerase ll, thereby blocking DNA replication and RNA and protein synthesis.
product containing amsacrine	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
amsacrine lactate - chemical	The lactate form of amsacrine, an aminoacridine analog and topoisomerase II inhibitor, with antineoplastic activity. Although the exact relationship between DNA binding and its activity has yet to be fully elucidated, amsacrine intercalates DNA through its acridine moiety, and its nonintercalative headgroup impedes topoisomerase II activity, augmenting enzyme-mediated DNA cleavage and resulting in DNA double-strand breaks. This ultimately induces programmed cell death.
amsa m	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
amsacrine lactate	The lactate form of amsacrine, an aminoacridine analog and topoisomerase II inhibitor, with antineoplastic activity. Although the exact relationship between DNA binding and its activity has yet to be fully elucidated, amsacrine intercalates DNA through its acridine moiety, and its nonintercalative headgroup impedes topoisomerase II activity, augmenting enzyme-mediated DNA cleavage and resulting in DNA double-strand breaks. This ultimately induces programmed cell death.
meta amsa	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
maze protocol	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of amsacrine, azacitidine, and etoposide that may be used in the treatment of induction-resistant or relapsed childhood acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
antitumor drugs	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
dna intercalating agent	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
cain acridine	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
chemotherapeutic anticancer agents	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
acridinyl anisidide	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
intercalative cpds	Agents that are capable of inserting themselves between the successive bases in DNA, thus kinking, uncoiling or otherwise deforming it and therefore preventing its proper functioning. They are used in the study of DNA.
antineoplastic agents	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
amsacrine - chemical	An aminoacridine derivative that intercalates into DNA and is used as an antineoplastic agent.
amygdalin	A cyanogenic glycoside found in the seeds of Rosaceae.
cyanogenic glycoside	A cyanide-containing glycoside found in many plants which plays a role in self defense. Glycosides are stored in the vacuoles and require cytoplasmic enzymatic activation to release cyanide aglycone from the glycone.
amygdaloside	A cyanogenic glycoside found in the seeds of Rosaceae.
amygdaloid nucleus	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
limbic system	A set of forebrain structures common to all mammals that is defined functionally and anatomically. It is implicated in the higher integration of visceral, olfactory, and somatic information as well as homeostatic responses including fundamental survival behaviors (feeding, mating, emotion). For most authors, it includes the AMYGDALA; EPITHALAMUS; GYRUS CINGULI; hippocampal formation (see HIPPOCAMPUS); HYPOTHALAMUS; PARAHIPPOCAMPAL GYRUS; SEPTAL NUCLEI; anterior nuclear group of thalamus, and portions of the basal ganglia. (Parent, Carpenter's Human Neuroanatomy, 9th ed, p744; NeuroNames, http://rprcsgi.rprc.washington.edu/neuronames/index.html (September 2, 1998)).
amygdaloid nuclear complex	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
prefrontal cortex	The rostral part of the frontal lobe, bounded by the inferior precentral fissure in humans, which receives projection fibers from the MEDIODORSAL NUCLEUS OF THE THALAMUS. The prefrontal cortex receives afferent fibers from numerous structures of the DIENCEPHALON; MESENCEPHALON; and LIMBIC SYSTEM as well as cortical afferents of visual, auditory, and somatic origin.
nucleus amygdalae	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
prefrontal lobe	The rostral part of the frontal lobe, bounded by the inferior precentral fissure in humans, which receives projection fibers from the MEDIODORSAL NUCLEUS OF THE THALAMUS. The prefrontal cortex receives afferent fibers from numerous structures of the DIENCEPHALON; MESENCEPHALON; and LIMBIC SYSTEM as well as cortical afferents of visual, auditory, and somatic origin.
amygdaloid body	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
area anterior amygdalae	refers to a cytoarchitecturally defined part of the rostral amygdala. In the human ( Mai-1997 ) and the macaque ( Paxinos-2009a ) it is located dorsomedially; it is bounded medially by the entorhinal sulcus and laterally by the part of the ventral claustrum known as the endopiriform claustrum. Proceeding caudally its upper (in human) or lateral (in macaque) boundary is formed by the central amygdalar nucleus. Its ventral boundary is formed by the cortical amygdalar nucleus, the medial amygdalar nucleus and the accessory basal nucleus.\r\nIn the rat ( Paxinos-2009b ) and the mouse ( Franklin-2008 ) it is bounded by the same structures except that part of its rostromedial boundary is with the basal nucleus and part of the lower boundary is with the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract. Some authors regard the part of the area that meets the brain surface in the rat and mouse as belonging to the medial amygdalar nucleus ( Swanson-2004; Hof-2000 ).\r\nClassically the anterior amygdalar area has been classified as part of the corticomedial nuclear group of the amygdala (Click 'Locus in Brain Hierarchy' below; Carpenter-1983 ). In the Functional CNS Model - Rat it is part of the extended striatum ( Swanson-2004 ).
stria terminalis	refers to a predominantly white matter structure of the endbrain defined on the basis of myelin stains. It is the most prominent bundle of fibers that projects from the amydala, largely from the corticomedial nuclear group. It emerges from the amygdala caudally then, bounded medially by the lateral ventrical, it arches upward in a semicircular path following the ventricle and continues anteriorly in the junction of the caudate nucleus with the thalamus. As it reaches the major part of the nucleus of stria terminalis some fibers split into smaller bundles, which project ventrally to the medial preoptic area, the anterior hypothalamic area, and the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus ( Carpenter-1983 ). Other terminal areas include the nucleus accumbens, the olfactory tubercle and, perhaps, the midline nuclear group of the thalamus. Most prominent in the human is the hypothalamic component.The stria terminalis also carries some fibers from the hypothalamus to the amygdala ( Olmos-1990 ).
pars compacta	A part of the substantia nigra. The pars compacta nerve cells contain melanin and are involved in motor control. (NCI)
archistriatum	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
secondary motor area	refers to anterodorsal areas of the cerebral cortex that are defined on the basis of internal structure, connectivity and function. It is one of two parts of the motor cortex; the other is the primary motor cortex ( Matelli-2004 ). In the human it is located in caudal parts of the superior frontal gyrus and middle frontal gyrus and in the rostral part of the precentral gyrus not occupied by the primary motor cortex; it is identified with area 6 of Brodmann (human). In the macaque it is located entirely in the precentral gyrus and, dorsally, in the caudal part of the superior frontal gyrus; it also identified with area 6 of Brodmann (guenon). In both it is subdivided into three parts: the mesial premotor cortex, dorsal premotor cortex, and ventral premotor cortex. In the rat ( Swanson-2004 ) and the mouse ( Hof-2000 ) the premotor cortex defined by absence of granular layers is not subdivided. It is the more medial of the two parts of the motor cortex located dorsolaterally in the anterior half of the cerebral cortex; at the frontal pole it occupies the entire dorsal aspect of the cortex; from there it gradually narrows to its caudal extreme, where it occupies a narrow band on the dorsal surface along the midline. The premotor cortex is not ordinarily subdivided in brain atlases of rodents.
amygdala	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
claustrum parvum	refers to one of five parts of the classical basal ganglia. The others are the striatum, globus pallidus, amygdala and claustrum. It is a collection of cells located between the claustrum on the one hand and the piriform area and amygdala on the other. It relates in structure and topology to the overlying piriform area as the claustrum relates to the cortical area, particularly the insular cortex, which overlies it. The endopiriform claustrum is found in the human ( Yilmazer-Hanke-2012 ), the macaque ( Price-1990 ), the rat ( Swanson-2004 ), and the mouse ( Hof-2000 ). \r\nIn rodents and the macaque it has two subdivisions: the dorsal endopiriform claustrum and the ventral endopiriform claustrum. In rodents both are located between the piriform area ventrolaterally and the external capsule medially; the location of the dorsal endopiriform claustrum is clearly superior to the ventral endopiriform claustrum. The temporal lobe of the macaque, which corresponds to the ventrolateral area of the rodent, is a much expanded, medially rotated structure. Thus, in the macaque the location of the ventral part of the endopiriform claustrum is medial and superior to the dorsal part ( Paxinos-2009a ). In the human the endopiriform claustrum is not divided into dorsal and ventral parts ( Yilmazer-Hanke-2012 ). Some anatomists divide it into several components: including ventral, prepiriform, diffuse, temporal, limitans, preamygdalar, and ventral parts ( Mai-2004 ).\r\nThe endopiriform claustrum of rodents is known as the endopiriform nucleus, which emphasizes its relation to the overlying piriform area ( Swanson-2004 ). Classically in primates it was known by a variety of names that emphasized its location between the claustrum and the amygdala; 'claustral-amygdalar area' for example ( Crosby-1962 ). Functionally it belongs to the cortical subplate nuclei ( Swanson-2004 ).
basal ganglia structure	Large subcortical nuclear masses derived from the telencephalon and located in the basal regions of the cerebral hemispheres.
corpus amygdaloideum	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
temporal lobes	Lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere responsible for auditory, olfactory, and semantic processing. It is located inferior to the lateral fissure and anterior to the OCCIPITAL LOBE.
archistriatums	Almond-shaped group of basal nuclei anterior to the INFERIOR HORN OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE of the TEMPORAL LOBE. The amygdala is part of the limbic system.
part of brain	Any component of the central nervous system that is contained within the cranium.
amyl nitrite	A vasodilator that is administered by inhalation. It is also used recreationally due to its supposed ability to induce euphoria and act as an aphrodisiac.
nitrites	Salts of nitrous acid or compounds containing the group NO2-. The inorganic nitrites of the type MNO2 (where M=metal) are all insoluble, except the alkali nitrites. The organic nitrites may be isomeric, but not identical with the corresponding nitro compounds. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
amyl nitrite product	A vasodilator that is administered by inhalation. It is also used recreationally due to its supposed ability to induce euphoria and act as an aphrodisiac.
theriacs	Agents counteracting or neutralizing the action of POISONS.
nitrite	Salts of nitrous acid or compounds containing the group NO2-. The inorganic nitrites of the type MNO2 (where M=metal) are all insoluble, except the alkali nitrites. The organic nitrites may be isomeric, but not identical with the corresponding nitro compounds. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
pain angina	The symptom of paroxysmal pain consequent to MYOCARDIAL ISCHEMIA usually of distinctive character, location and radiation. It is thought to be provoked by a transient stressful situation during which the oxygen requirements of the MYOCARDIUM exceed that supplied by the CORONARY CIRCULATION.
vasorelaxants	Drugs used to cause dilation of the blood vessels.
product containing amyl nitrite	A vasodilator that is administered by inhalation. It is also used recreationally due to its supposed ability to induce euphoria and act as an aphrodisiac.
amyl nitrosum	A vasodilator that is administered by inhalation. It is also used recreationally due to its supposed ability to induce euphoria and act as an aphrodisiac.
amyl nitrite-containing product	A vasodilator that is administered by inhalation. It is also used recreationally due to its supposed ability to induce euphoria and act as an aphrodisiac.
amylase preparation	A group of amylolytic enzymes that cleave starch, glycogen, and related alpha-1,4-glucans. (Stedman, 25th ed) EC 3.2.1.-.
beta-amylase	An enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glycosidic linkages in starch, glycogen, and related polysaccharides and oligosaccharides so as to remove successive beta-maltose units from the non-reducing ends of the chains. EC 3.2.1.2.
amylase	A group of amylolytic enzymes that cleave starch, glycogen, and related alpha-1,4-glucans. (Stedman, 25th ed) EC 3.2.1.-.
beta amylase	An enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of 1,4-alpha-glycosidic linkages in starch, glycogen, and related polysaccharides and oligosaccharides so as to remove successive beta-maltose units from the non-reducing ends of the chains. EC 3.2.1.2.
assay of amylase	A quantitative measurement of amylase present in a sample.
digestants	An agent that favors or assists the process of digestion.
amylases	A group of amylolytic enzymes that cleave starch, glycogen, and related alpha-1,4-glucans. (Stedman, 25th ed) EC 3.2.1.-.
pancrelipase	A preparation of hog pancreatic enzymes standardized for lipase content.
pancrelipase product	A preparation of hog pancreatic enzymes standardized for lipase content.
isoamylase	An enzyme that hydrolyzes 1,6-alpha-glucosidic branch linkages in glycogen, amylopectin, and their beta-limit dextrins. It is distinguished from pullulanase (EC 3.2.1.41) by its inability to attack pullulan and by the feeble action of alpha-limit dextrins. It is distinguished from amylopectin 6-glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.69) by its action on glycogen. With EC 3.2.1.69, it produces the activity called "debranching enzyme". EC 3.2.1.68.
glycosidases	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the glycosidic linkage of glycosides and the addition of water to the resulting molecules.
hydrolysis	The process of cleaving a chemical compound by the addition of a molecule of water.
hydrolase family gene	A gene that encodes an enzyme capable of catalyzing the hydrolysis of chemical bonds.
serum amyloid a	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
amyloid protein	extracellular glycoprotein that accumulates in certain pathological conditions, e.g., the paired helical filaments of neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome; use this term for both the precursor and beta form.
amyloid relat serum protein saa	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
amyloid proteins	extracellular glycoprotein that accumulates in certain pathological conditions, e.g., the paired helical filaments of neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome; use this term for both the precursor and beta form.
serum amyloid	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
aa protein	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
lipid transport	The directed movement of lipids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Lipids are compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not, or sparingly, in an aqueous solvent. [ISBN:0198506732]
saa - amyloid a	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
amyloid a	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
amyloid protein aa precursor	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
muckle well syndrome	An autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the NLRP3 gene which encodes cryopyrin. It is characterized by recurrent episodes of urticaria and fever which develop in infancy. It may lead to sensorineural hearing loss and/or amyloidosis.
aa amyloidosis	Extracellular tissue deposition of fibrils that are composed of fragments of and/or intact serum amyloid A protein, a hepatic acute phase reactant. [ORCID:0000-0003-3411-9598, PMID:29261990]
amyloid protein saa	Ett akutfasreaktionprotein som förekommer i låga halter i normalt serum, men som finns i högre halter i serum hos äldre personer och hos patienter med amyloidos. Det utgör en cirkulerande prekursor till amyloidprotein A, vilket finns lagrat i amyloid typ AA.
uda syndrome	An autoinflammatory disease caused by mutations in the NLRP3 gene which encodes cryopyrin. It is characterized by recurrent episodes of urticaria and fever which develop in infancy. It may lead to sensorineural hearing loss and/or amyloidosis.
amyloidosis	A group of sporadic, familial and/or inherited, degenerative, and infectious disease processes, linked by the common theme of abnormal protein folding and deposition of AMYLOID. As the amyloid deposits enlarge they displace normal tissue structures, causing disruption of function. Various signs and symptoms depend on the location and size of the deposits.
amyloidoses	A group of sporadic, familial and/or inherited, degenerative, and infectious disease processes, linked by the common theme of abnormal protein folding and deposition of AMYLOID. As the amyloid deposits enlarge they displace normal tissue structures, causing disruption of function. Various signs and symptoms depend on the location and size of the deposits.
desacetyllanatoside c	Deacetyllanatoside C. A cardiotonic glycoside from the leaves of Digitalis lanata.
familial paroxysmal polyserositis	A group of HEREDITARY AUTOINFLAMMATION DISEASES, characterized by recurrent fever, abdominal pain, headache, rash, PLEURISY; and ARTHRITIS. ORCHITIS; benign MENINGITIS; and AMYLOIDOSIS may also occur. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in marenostrin gene encoding PYRIN result in autosomal recessive transmission; simple heterozygous, autosomal dominant form of the disease also exists with mutations in the same gene.
primary amyloidosis	A nonproliferative disorder of the PLASMA CELL characterized by excessive production and misfolding of IMMUNOGLOBULIN LIGHT CHAINS that form insoluble amyloid fibrils (see AMYLOID DEPOSITS) in various tissues. Clinical features include LIVER FAILURE; MULTIPLE MYELOMA; NEPHROTIC SYNDROME; RESTRICTIVE CARDIOMYOPATHY, and neuropathies.
metabolic disorders	Generic term for diseases caused by an abnormal metabolic process. It can be congenital due to inherited enzyme abnormality (METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS) or acquired due to disease of an endocrine organ or failure of a metabolically important organ such as the liver. (Stedman, 26th ed)
dis metab	Generic term for diseases caused by an abnormal metabolic process. It can be congenital due to inherited enzyme abnormality (METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS) or acquired due to disease of an endocrine organ or failure of a metabolically important organ such as the liver. (Stedman, 26th ed)
hepatic amyloidosis	A form of amyloidosis that affects the liver. [HPO:probinson]
amyloidosis cardiac	Extracellular deposition in cardiac tissue of a proteinaceous material that, when stained with Congo red, demonstrates apple-green birefringence under polarized light and that has a distinct color when stained with sulfated Alcian blue. Viewed with electron microscopy, the amyloid deposits are seen to be composed of a beta-sheet fibrillar material. These nonbranching fibrils have a diameter of 7.5 to 10 nm and are the result of protein misfolding. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16186440]
pulmonary amyloidosis	Extracellular deposition in lung tissue of a proteinaceous material that, when stained with Congo red, demonstrates apple-green birefringence under polarized light and that has a distinct color when stained with sulfated Alcian blue. Viewed with electron microscopy, the amyloid deposits are seen to be composed of a beta-sheet fibrillar material. These nonbranching fibrils have a diameter of 7.5 to 10 nm and are the result of protein misfolding. []
generalised amyloid deposition	A diffuse form of amyloidosis. [HPO:probinson]
amyloid disease	A group of sporadic, familial and/or inherited, degenerative, and infectious disease processes, linked by the common theme of abnormal protein folding and deposition of AMYLOID. As the amyloid deposits enlarge they displace normal tissue structures, causing disruption of function. Various signs and symptoms depend on the location and size of the deposits.
risk for chronic functional constipation	Susceptible to infrequent or difficult evacuation of feces, which has been present nearly 3 of the prior 12 months, which may compromise health.
periodic diseases	A group of HEREDITARY AUTOINFLAMMATION DISEASES, characterized by recurrent fever, abdominal pain, headache, rash, PLEURISY; and ARTHRITIS. ORCHITIS; benign MENINGITIS; and AMYLOIDOSIS may also occur. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in marenostrin gene encoding PYRIN result in autosomal recessive transmission; simple heterozygous, autosomal dominant form of the disease also exists with mutations in the same gene.
congophilic angiopathy	A heterogeneous group of sporadic or familial disorders characterized by AMYLOID deposits in the walls of small and medium sized blood vessels of CEREBRAL CORTEX and MENINGES. Clinical features include multiple, small lobar CEREBRAL HEMORRHAGE; cerebral ischemia (BRAIN ISCHEMIA); and CEREBRAL INFARCTION. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is unrelated to generalized AMYLOIDOSIS. Amyloidogenic peptides in this condition are nearly always the same ones found in ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (from Kumar: Robbins and Cotran: Pathologic Basis of Disease, 7th ed., 2005)
amyloidosis of liver	A form of amyloidosis that affects the liver. [HPO:probinson]
immunoglobulin light chain amyloidosis	A nonproliferative disorder of the PLASMA CELL characterized by excessive production and misfolding of IMMUNOGLOBULIN LIGHT CHAINS that form insoluble amyloid fibrils (see AMYLOID DEPOSITS) in various tissues. Clinical features include LIVER FAILURE; MULTIPLE MYELOMA; NEPHROTIC SYNDROME; RESTRICTIVE CARDIOMYOPATHY, and neuropathies.
cardiac amyloidosis	Extracellular deposition in cardiac tissue of a proteinaceous material that, when stained with Congo red, demonstrates apple-green birefringence under polarized light and that has a distinct color when stained with sulfated Alcian blue. Viewed with electron microscopy, the amyloid deposits are seen to be composed of a beta-sheet fibrillar material. These nonbranching fibrils have a diameter of 7.5 to 10 nm and are the result of protein misfolding. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16186440]
amyloidoma	Nodular localized form of amyloidosis with predominantly thoracic localization (pulmonary amyloidosis), considered as secondary protein structure disease in which insoluble protein fibrils accumulate extracellularly. The form of primary amyloid in amyloidoma is characterized by abnormal deposition of light chain proteins composed of monoclonal immunoglobulin. Pulmonary amyloidomas are rare and are often found incidentally as solitary or multiple calcified nodules and masses on chest radiographs in asymptomatic elderly patients. Cavitation is rare, the prognosis is good.
amyloid polyneuropathy	Disorders of the peripheral nervous system associated with the deposition of AMYLOID in nerve tissue. Familial, primary (nonfamilial), and secondary forms have been described. Some familial subtypes demonstrate an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Clinical manifestations include sensory loss, mild weakness, autonomic dysfunction, and CARPAL TUNNEL SYNDROME. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1349)
amyloid diseases	A group of sporadic, familial and/or inherited, degenerative, and infectious disease processes, linked by the common theme of abnormal protein folding and deposition of AMYLOID. As the amyloid deposits enlarge they displace normal tissue structures, causing disruption of function. Various signs and symptoms depend on the location and size of the deposits.
organs systems	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
recurrent polyserositis	A group of HEREDITARY AUTOINFLAMMATION DISEASES, characterized by recurrent fever, abdominal pain, headache, rash, PLEURISY; and ARTHRITIS. ORCHITIS; benign MENINGITIS; and AMYLOIDOSIS may also occur. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in marenostrin gene encoding PYRIN result in autosomal recessive transmission; simple heterozygous, autosomal dominant form of the disease also exists with mutations in the same gene.
amyloidosis nos	A group of sporadic, familial and/or inherited, degenerative, and infectious disease processes, linked by the common theme of abnormal protein folding and deposition of AMYLOID. As the amyloid deposits enlarge they displace normal tissue structures, causing disruption of function. Various signs and symptoms depend on the location and size of the deposits.
familial amyloid neuropathies	Inherited disorders of the peripheral nervous system associated with the deposition of AMYLOID in nerve tissue. The different clinical types based on symptoms correspond to the presence of a variety of mutations in several different proteins including transthyretin (PREALBUMIN); APOLIPOPROTEIN A-I; and GELSOLIN.
amyloid nephropathy	A form of amyloidosis that affects the kidney. On hematoxylin and eosin stain, amyloid is identified as extracellular amorphous material that is lightly eosinophilic. These deposits often stain weakly for periodic acid Schiff (PAS), demonstrate a blue-to-gray hue on the trichrome stain and are typically negative on the Jones methenamine silver (JMS) stain. These tinctorial properties contrast with the histologic appearance of collagen, a major component of basement membranes, mesangial matrix and areas of sclerosis, which demonstrates strong positivity for PAS and JMS (See Figure 1 of PMID:25852856). [HPO:probinson, PMID:25852856]
familial; amyloidosis	An autosomal dominant inherited form of amyloidosis.
generalised metabolic disorder	Generic term for diseases caused by an abnormal metabolic process. It can be congenital due to inherited enzyme abnormality (METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS) or acquired due to disease of an endocrine organ or failure of a metabolically important organ such as the liver. (Stedman, 26th ed)
amyloid; disorder	A group of sporadic, familial and/or inherited, degenerative, and infectious disease processes, linked by the common theme of abnormal protein folding and deposition of AMYLOID. As the amyloid deposits enlarge they displace normal tissue structures, causing disruption of function. Various signs and symptoms depend on the location and size of the deposits.
amyloid polyneuropathies	Disorders of the peripheral nervous system associated with the deposition of AMYLOID in nerve tissue. Familial, primary (nonfamilial), and secondary forms have been described. Some familial subtypes demonstrate an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Clinical manifestations include sensory loss, mild weakness, autonomic dysfunction, and CARPAL TUNNEL SYNDROME. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1349)
amyloid	A group of sporadic, familial and/or inherited, degenerative, and infectious disease processes, linked by the common theme of abnormal protein folding and deposition of AMYLOID. As the amyloid deposits enlarge they displace normal tissue structures, causing disruption of function. Various signs and symptoms depend on the location and size of the deposits.
body system -retired-	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
reactive systemic amyloidosis	Amyloidosis occurring secondary to another disease.
al amyloidosis	A nonproliferative disorder of the PLASMA CELL characterized by excessive production and misfolding of IMMUNOGLOBULIN LIGHT CHAINS that form insoluble amyloid fibrils (see AMYLOID DEPOSITS) in various tissues. Clinical features include LIVER FAILURE; MULTIPLE MYELOMA; NEPHROTIC SYNDROME; RESTRICTIVE CARDIOMYOPATHY, and neuropathies.
familial amyloidoses	An autosomal dominant inherited form of amyloidosis.
soft tissue amyloid tumor	A soft tissue neoplasm composed of acellular amyloid material.
cancer-related condition	A disorder either associated with an increased risk for malignant transformation (e.g., intraepithelial neoplasia, leukoplakia, dysplastic nevus, myelodysplastic syndrome) or that develops as a result of the presence of an existing malignant neoplasm (e.g., paraneoplastic syndrome).
ttr gene	This gene is involved in both the binding and transport of retinol and the thyroid hormone thyroxine.
neuroendocrine basic polypeptide	Cystatin-C (146 aa, ~16 kDa) is encoded by the human CST3 gene. This protein is involved in the inhibition of cysteine proteinases.
nci ctep sdc terminology	The NCI Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Simplified Disease Classification (SDC), a three level hierarchy of Category, Sub-Category, and coding Term intended to provide an intuitive classification of neoplastic diseases to meet the needs of CTEP while still allowing reporting based on the Medical Dictionary for Drug Regulatory Reporting (MedDRA) terminology. All CTEP SDC Terms are matched to NCIt concepts, which are linked to SDC Categories and Sub-Categories through Concept_In_Subset association relationships.
amylopectin	A highly branched glucan in starch.
starch	Any of a group of polysaccharides of the general formula (C6-H10-O5)n, composed of a long-chain polymer of glucose in the form of amylose and amylopectin. It is the chief storage form of energy reserve (carbohydrates) in plants.
glycans	Long chain polymeric CARBOHYDRATES composed of MONOSACCHARIDES linked by glycosidic bonds.
polysaccharide	Long chain polymeric CARBOHYDRATES composed of MONOSACCHARIDES linked by glycosidic bonds.
amylose	An unbranched glucan in starch.
glycan	Long chain polymeric CARBOHYDRATES composed of MONOSACCHARIDES linked by glycosidic bonds.
amyotonia congenita	congenital atonic pseudoparalysis observed especially in infants and characterized by absence of muscular tone only in muscles innervated by the spinal nerves; also known as Oppenheim's disease or syndrome or congenital atonic pseudoparalysis.
neonatal hypotonia	Mild hypotonia that usually appears early in infancy and has a favorable outcome. It is not a manifestation of another disorder that may cause hypotonia (e.g., cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy).
neuromuscular junction	The synapse between a neuron and a muscle.
oppenheim dis	congenital atonic pseudoparalysis observed especially in infants and characterized by absence of muscular tone only in muscles innervated by the spinal nerves; also known as Oppenheim's disease or syndrome or congenital atonic pseudoparalysis.
oppenheim's disease	congenital atonic pseudoparalysis observed especially in infants and characterized by absence of muscular tone only in muscles innervated by the spinal nerves; also known as Oppenheim's disease or syndrome or congenital atonic pseudoparalysis.
skeletal muscle	A subtype of striated muscle, attached by TENDONS to the SKELETON. Skeletal muscles are innervated and their movement can be consciously controlled. They are also called voluntary muscles.
oppenheim's amyotonia	congenital atonic pseudoparalysis observed especially in infants and characterized by absence of muscular tone only in muscles innervated by the spinal nerves; also known as Oppenheim's disease or syndrome or congenital atonic pseudoparalysis.
oppenheim disease	congenital atonic pseudoparalysis observed especially in infants and characterized by absence of muscular tone only in muscles innervated by the spinal nerves; also known as Oppenheim's disease or syndrome or congenital atonic pseudoparalysis.
amyotonia; congenital	congenital atonic pseudoparalysis observed especially in infants and characterized by absence of muscular tone only in muscles innervated by the spinal nerves; also known as Oppenheim's disease or syndrome or congenital atonic pseudoparalysis.
generalized myotonia	Inherited myotonic disorders with early childhood onset MYOTONIA. Muscular hypertrophy is common and myotonia may impair ambulation and other movements. It is classified as Thomsen (autosomal dominant) or Becker (autosomal recessive) generalized myotonia mainly based on the inheritance pattern. Becker type is also clinically more severe. An autosomal dominant variant with milder symptoms and later onset is known as myotonia levior. Mutations in the voltage-dependent skeletal muscle chloride channel are associated with the disorders.
floppy amyotonic infant	congenital atonic pseudoparalysis observed especially in infants and characterized by absence of muscular tone only in muscles innervated by the spinal nerves; also known as Oppenheim's disease or syndrome or congenital atonic pseudoparalysis.
neuromuscular disorder nos	A general term encompassing lower MOTOR NEURON DISEASE; PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES; and certain MUSCULAR DISEASES. Manifestations include MUSCLE WEAKNESS; FASCICULATION; muscle ATROPHY; SPASM; MYOKYMIA; MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, myalgias, and MUSCLE HYPOTONIA.
birth disorder nos	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
myoneural junction	The synapse between a neuron and a muscle.
peripheral nervous system structure	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
edaravone	An antipyrine derivative that functions as a free radical scavenger and neuroprotective agent. It is used in the treatment of AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS and STROKE.
syndrome; charcot	A symptom complex characterized by pain and weakness in SKELETAL MUSCLE group associated with exercise, such as leg pain and weakness brought on by walking. Such muscle limpness disappears after a brief rest and is often relates to arterial STENOSIS; muscle ISCHEMIA; and accumulation of LACTATE.
lou-gehrigs disease	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
juvenile als	A very rare severe motor neuron disease with manifestation of progressive upper and lower motor neuron degeneration causing facial spasticity, dysarthria, and gait disorders with onset before 25 years of age. The disease is usually slowly progressive and some patients have been reported to become bedridden by 12 to 50 years of age. Mutations in the following genes have been found in patients ALS2 (2q33-q35), and rarely SIGMAR1 (9p13.3), SPG11 (15q13-q15) and FUS (16p11.2).
myelopathy nos	Pathologic conditions which feature SPINAL CORD damage or dysfunction, including disorders involving the meninges and perimeningeal spaces surrounding the spinal cord. Traumatic injuries, vascular diseases, infections, and inflammatory/autoimmune processes may affect the spinal cord.
lou gehrigs disease	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
amyotrophic laterals sclerosis	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
familial pick's disease	The most common clinical form of FRONTOTEMPORAL LOBAR DEGENERATION, this dementia presents with personality and behavioral changes often associated with disinhibition, apathy, and lack of insight.
motor neuron atrophy	Wasting involving the motor neuron. [HPO:probinson]
lou gehrig disease	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
motor neuron disease	Diseases characterized by a selective degeneration of the motor neurons of the spinal cord, brainstem, or motor cortex. Clinical subtypes are distinguished by the major site of degeneration. In AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS there is involvement of upper, lower, and brainstem motor neurons. In progressive muscular atrophy and related syndromes (see MUSCULAR ATROPHY, SPINAL) the motor neurons in the spinal cord are primarily affected. With progressive bulbar palsy (BULBAR PALSY, PROGRESSIVE), the initial degeneration occurs in the brainstem. In primary lateral sclerosis, the cortical neurons are affected in isolation. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1089)
amytrophic lateral sclerosis	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
motoneuron	Neurons which activate MUSCLE CELLS.
palsy; creeping	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
motor neuron diseases	Diseases characterized by a selective degeneration of the motor neurons of the spinal cord, brainstem, or motor cortex. Clinical subtypes are distinguished by the major site of degeneration. In AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS there is involvement of upper, lower, and brainstem motor neurons. In progressive muscular atrophy and related syndromes (see MUSCULAR ATROPHY, SPINAL) the motor neurons in the spinal cord are primarily affected. With progressive bulbar palsy (BULBAR PALSY, PROGRESSIVE), the initial degeneration occurs in the brainstem. In primary lateral sclerosis, the cortical neurons are affected in isolation. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1089)
motor neurone disease [ambiguous]	Diseases characterized by a selective degeneration of the motor neurons of the spinal cord, brainstem, or motor cortex. Clinical subtypes are distinguished by the major site of degeneration. In AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS there is involvement of upper, lower, and brainstem motor neurons. In progressive muscular atrophy and related syndromes (see MUSCULAR ATROPHY, SPINAL) the motor neurons in the spinal cord are primarily affected. With progressive bulbar palsy (BULBAR PALSY, PROGRESSIVE), the initial degeneration occurs in the brainstem. In primary lateral sclerosis, the cortical neurons are affected in isolation. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1089)
lou gehrig's disease	A degenerative disorder affecting upper MOTOR NEURONS in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and SPINAL CORD. Disease onset is usually after the age of 50 and the process is usually fatal within 3 to 6 years. Clinical manifestations include progressive weakness, atrophy, FASCICULATION, hyperreflexia, DYSARTHRIA, dysphagia, and eventual paralysis of respiratory function. Pathologic features include the replacement of motor neurons with fibrous ASTROCYTES and atrophy of anterior SPINAL NERVE ROOTS and corticospinal tracts. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1089-94)
motor system disease	Diseases characterized by a selective degeneration of the motor neurons of the spinal cord, brainstem, or motor cortex. Clinical subtypes are distinguished by the major site of degeneration. In AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS there is involvement of upper, lower, and brainstem motor neurons. In progressive muscular atrophy and related syndromes (see MUSCULAR ATROPHY, SPINAL) the motor neurons in the spinal cord are primarily affected. With progressive bulbar palsy (BULBAR PALSY, PROGRESSIVE), the initial degeneration occurs in the brainstem. In primary lateral sclerosis, the cortical neurons are affected in isolation. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1089)
progressive muscular atrophy	A rare, milder form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It is characterized by a slowly progressive clinical course. Signs and symptoms include muscle weakness, atrophy, and fasciculation.
central nervous system neurodegenerative disorder	A disorder of the central nervous system characterized by gradual and progressive loss of neural tissue and neurologic function.
neonicotine	A piperidine botanical insecticide.
nicotinic agonist	Drugs that bind to and activate nicotinic cholinergic receptors (RECEPTORS, NICOTINIC). Nicotinic agonists act at postganglionic nicotinic receptors, at neuroeffector junctions in the peripheral nervous system, and at nicotinic receptors in the central nervous system. Agents that function as neuromuscular depolarizing blocking agents are included here because they activate nicotinic receptors, although they are used clinically to block nicotinic transmission.
anal sac	A pair of anal glands or sacs, located on either side of the ANUS, that produce and store a dark, foul-smelling fluid in carnivorous animals such as MEPHITIDAE and DOGS. The expelled fluid is used as a defensive repellent (in skunks) or a material to mark territory (in dogs).
exocrine glands	Glands of external secretion that release its secretions to the body's cavities, organs, or surface, through a duct.
anal sac structure	A pair of anal glands or sacs, located on either side of the ANUS, that produce and store a dark, foul-smelling fluid in carnivorous animals such as MEPHITIDAE and DOGS. The expelled fluid is used as a defensive repellent (in skunks) or a material to mark territory (in dogs).
anal canal	Den sista delen av tjocktarmen, börjar i rektal ampulla och mynnar i anus.
exocrine system	A system of glands that secrete fluids delivered via ducts and tubes directly to organs including the skin. Examples include the exocrine pancreas and the prostate gland.
anal sphincter	The internal and external muscles surrounding the anus that maintain continence.
internal anal sphincter	A ring of smooth muscle surrounding the anus on the inside of the external anal sphincter.
musculi perinei	Any one of the of the superficial (ischiocavernosus, bulbospongiosus, superficial transverse perineal muscles) or deep (deep transverse perineal muscle, sphincter urethrae muscle) muscles located in the perineum.
perianal region structure	The skin area around the anus. (NCI)
third degree perineal laceration	Injury to perineum involving anal sphincter complex. [adapted from reVITALize]
sphincter ani muscle	The internal and external muscles surrounding the anus that maintain continence.
egg - electrogastrography	A non-invasive technique that utilizes abdominal skin electrodes and computerized spectral analysis to assess gastric myoelectrical activity.
structure of sphincter ani muscle	The internal and external muscles surrounding the anus that maintain continence.
sphincter ani externus	A ring of striated muscular fibers surrounding the anus on the outside of the internal anal sphincter.
anal sphincters	The internal and external muscles surrounding the anus that maintain continence.
muscular system of perineum	Any one of the of the superficial (ischiocavernosus, bulbospongiosus, superficial transverse perineal muscles) or deep (deep transverse perineal muscle, sphincter urethrae muscle) muscles located in the perineum.
internal sphincterotomies	Surgical incision of the INTERNAL ANAL SPHINCTER typically in the treatment of FISSURE IN ANO; chronic ANAL FISSURE and FECAL INCONTINENCE.
anal sphincter prostheses	Implantable prostheses designed to functionally replace the anal sphincter. These prostheses are typically surgically implantable hydraulic devices with a fluid reservoir (e.g., balloon), a mechanism with a small pump that is appropriately situated under the skin, and an inflatable and deflatable cuff that surrounds the anal canal; the components are usually connected to each other using silastic tubes. Other devices intended to occlude the bowel by reproducing the action of the puborectal muscle are also available. Anal sphincter prostheses are used to help the patient control moderate to severe continence; the cuff remains inflated to maintain continence and is deflated by the user to produce a bowel movement.
bemegride	A CNS stimulant that is used to induce convulsions in experimental animals. It has also been used as a respiratory stimulant and in the treatment of barbiturate overdose.
analeptics	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
desamfetamina	The d-form of AMPHETAMINE. It is a central nervous system stimulant and a sympathomimetic. It has also been used in the treatment of narcolepsy and of attention deficit disorders and hyperactivity in children. Dextroamphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulating release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. It is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic.
harmidine	A beta-carboline alkaloid isolated from seeds of PEGANUM.
methylphenidate	A central nervous system stimulant used most commonly in the treatment of ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER in children and for NARCOLEPSY. Its mechanisms appear to be similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The d-isomer of this drug is referred to as DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE.
pemoline	A central nervous system stimulant used in fatigue and depressive states and to treat hyperkinetic disorders in children.
picrotoxin	A noncompetitive antagonist at GABA-A receptors and thus a convulsant. Picrotoxin blocks the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID-activated chloride ionophore. Although it is most often used as a research tool, it has been used as a CNS stimulant and an antidote in poisoning by CNS depressants, especially the barbiturates.
caffeine citrate	Commercial citrate of caffeine, though not a definite salt. It is the alkaloid caffeine, with a portion of adherent citric acid, as indicated by its pharmacopoeial name (citrated caffeine). Its general action and uses are the same as those given under caffeine. Caffeine citrate is used chiefly as a remedy for the idiopathic headache (migraine). This salt is very soluble in water, and is assimilated much more readily than pure caffeine when taken into the stomach. (NCI04)
tenamfetamine	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
dextroamphetamine sulfate	The salt of the dextro-isomer of amphetamine and sympathomimetic amine with CNS stimulating properties. Dextroamphetamine sulphate acts by facilitating the release of catecholamines, particularly noradrenaline and dopamine, from nerve terminals in the brain and inhibits their uptake. This leads to an increase in motor activity, causes euphoria, mental alertness and excitement and suppresses appetite. This drug causes dependence and may cause an increase in heart rate and blood pressure. It is used in the treatment of narcolepsy and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
product containing amfepramone	A appetite depressant considered to produce less central nervous system disturbance than most drugs in this therapeutic category. It is also considered to be among the safest for patients with hypertension. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2290)
mazindol	Tricyclic anorexigenic agent unrelated to and less toxic than AMPHETAMINE, but with some similar side effects. It inhibits uptake of catecholamines and blocks the binding of cocaine to the dopamine uptake transporter.
pyritinol	A neurotropic agent which reduces permeability of blood-brain barrier to phosphate. It has no vitamin B6 activity.
citrated caffeine	Commercial citrate of caffeine, though not a definite salt. It is the alkaloid caffeine, with a portion of adherent citric acid, as indicated by its pharmacopoeial name (citrated caffeine). Its general action and uses are the same as those given under caffeine. Caffeine citrate is used chiefly as a remedy for the idiopathic headache (migraine). This salt is very soluble in water, and is assimilated much more readily than pure caffeine when taken into the stomach. (NCI04)
talampanel	A synthetic derivative of dioxolo-benzodiazepine with anti-seizure activity. Talampanel noncompetitively binds to the AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid) subtype of glutamate excitatory amino acid receptors and may inhibit the growth of gliomas by interfering with neurotransmitters involved in brain tumor growth. This agent may also protect against traumatic brain injury. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C38139" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C38139" NCI Thesaurus)
ramelteon	A synthetic melatonin analogue with hypnotic and circadian rhythm-modulating activities. Ramelteon binds to and activates melatonin receptors 1 and 2 in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the brain, thereby promoting the onset of sleep. Unlike the nonbenzodiazepine sedative hypnotics zolpidem and zaleplon, this agent does not activate GABA receptors and, so, produces no GABA receptor-mediated anxiolytic, myorelaxant, and amnesic effects.
perampanel	An orally active, non-competitive, and selective alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor antagonist, with anti-epileptic activity. Although the mechanism of action through which perampanel exerts its antiepileptic effect has not been fully elucidated, this agent antagonizes the AMPA subtype of the excitatory glutamate receptor found on postsynaptic neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). This antagonistic action prevents AMPA receptor activation by glutamate and results in the inhibition of neuronal excitation, repetitive neuronal firing, and the stabilization of hyper-excited neural membranes. Glutamate, the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the CNS, plays an important role in various neurological disorders caused by neuronal hyperexcitation.
zarda	A combination of tobacco, lime, spices, vegetable dyes, and areca nut. It is typically chewed for its stimulant effects.
khaini tobacco	A combination of tobacco and slaked lime paste with or without areca nut. It is placed between the cheek and gum and is a mild stimulant.
cns stimulating drugs	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
gutkas	A combination of crushed areca nut, tobacco, catechu, paraffin wax, slaked lime, and sweet or savory flavorings. It is placed between the cheek and gum and is a mild stimulant.
central nervous stimulants system	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
pemolina	A central nervous system stimulant used in fatigue and depressive states and to treat hyperkinetic disorders in children.
modafinil	A benzhydryl acetamide compound, central nervous system stimulant, and CYP3A4 inducing agent that is used in the treatment of NARCOLEPSY and SLEEP WAKE DISORDERS.
harmaline	A beta-carboline alkaloid isolated from seeds of PEGANUM.
nikethamide	A central nervous system stimulant. It was formerly used in the treatment of barbiturate overdose but is now considered to be of no value for such purposes and may be dangerous. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1229)
fenmetrazina	A sympathomimetic drug used primarily as an appetite depressant. Its actions and mechanisms are similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
dihydroharmine	A beta-carboline alkaloid isolated from seeds of PEGANUM.
caffeine	A methylxanthine naturally occurring in some beverages and also used as a pharmacological agent. Caffeine's most notable pharmacological effect is as a central nervous system stimulant, increasing alertness and producing agitation. It also relaxes SMOOTH MUSCLE, stimulates CARDIAC MUSCLE, stimulates DIURESIS, and appears to be useful in the treatment of some types of headache. Several cellular actions of caffeine have been observed, but it is not entirely clear how each contributes to its pharmacological profile. Among the most important are inhibition of cyclic nucleotide PHOSPHODIESTERASES, antagonism of ADENOSINE RECEPTORS, and modulation of intracellular calcium handling.
nicotine product	Nicotine is highly toxic alkaloid. It is the prototypical agonist at nicotinic cholinergic receptors where it dramatically stimulates neurons and ultimately blocks synaptic transmission. Nicotine is also important medically because of its presence in tobacco smoke.
piracetam	A compound suggested to be both a nootropic and a neuroprotective agent.
product containing lisdexamfetamine	A prodrug of the d-isomer of amphetamine, a non-catecholamine sympathomimetic amine with central nervous system (CNS) stimulating activity. Upon administration, lisdexamphetamine is converted to dextroamphetamine through cleavage of the lysine group. Dextroamphetamine acts by facilitating the release of catecholamines, particularly noradrenaline and dopamine, from its storage sites in nerve terminals in the CNS, and inhibits their uptake within the mesocorticolimbic system, a major component of the brain reward system, resulting in measurable behavioral changes such as euphoria, mental alertness and excitement and appetite suppression. As a CNS stimulant, this agent may increase blood pressure.
d amphetamine	The d-form of AMPHETAMINE. It is a central nervous system stimulant and a sympathomimetic. It has also been used in the treatment of narcolepsy and of attention deficit disorders and hyperactivity in children. Dextroamphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulating release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. It is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic.
mazindole	Tricyclic anorexigenic agent unrelated to and less toxic than AMPHETAMINE, but with some similar side effects. It inhibits uptake of catecholamines and blocks the binding of cocaine to the dopamine uptake transporter.
doxapramum	A central respiratory stimulant with a brief duration of action. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmocopoeia, 30th ed, p1225)
methyl phenidylacetate	A central nervous system stimulant used most commonly in the treatment of ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER in children and for NARCOLEPSY. Its mechanisms appear to be similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The d-isomer of this drug is referred to as DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE.
defenmetrazin	A sympathomimetic drug used primarily as an appetite depressant. Its actions and mechanisms are similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
benzphetamine product	A sympathomimetic agent with properties similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. It is used in the treatment of obesity. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1222)
hexafluorodiethyl ether	A convulsant primarily used in experimental animals. It was formerly used to induce convulsions as a alternative to electroshock therapy.
armodafinil	A drug that is used to treat certain sleep disorders, such as narcolepsy. It makes patients feel more alert and awake. It is also being studied in the treatment of insomnia and fatigue in patients treated for cancer. Armodafinil acts in a part of the brain that controls sleep and wakefulness. It is a type of wakefulness-promoting agent.
citicoline	Donor of choline in biosynthesis of choline-containing phosphoglycerides.
pentetrazol	A pharmaceutical agent that displays activity as a central nervous system and respiratory stimulant. It is considered a non-competitive GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID antagonist. Pentylenetetrazole has been used experimentally to study seizure phenomenon and to identify pharmaceuticals that may control seizure susceptibility.
dexfenfluramine	The S-isomer of FENFLURAMINE. It is a serotonin agonist and is used as an anorectic. Unlike fenfluramine, it does not possess any catecholamine agonist activity.
central nervous system medications	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
deanol	An antidepressive agent that has also been used in the treatment of movement disorders. The mechanism of action is not well understood.
amfetaminum	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
flurotyl	A convulsant primarily used in experimental animals. It was formerly used to induce convulsions as a alternative to electroshock therapy.
product containing pemoline	A central nervous system stimulant used in fatigue and depressive states and to treat hyperkinetic disorders in children.
phenmetrazine product	A sympathomimetic drug used primarily as an appetite depressant. Its actions and mechanisms are similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
methylphenidate product	A central nervous system stimulant used most commonly in the treatment of ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER in children and for NARCOLEPSY. Its mechanisms appear to be similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The d-isomer of this drug is referred to as DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE.
lis dexamfetamine dimesylate	The dimesylate form and prodrug of the d-isomer of amphetamine, a non-catecholamine sympathomimetic amine with central nervous system (CNS) stimulating activity. Upon administration, lisdexamphetamine is converted to dextroamphetamine through cleavage of the lysine group. Dextroamphetamine acts by facilitating the release of catecholamines, particularly noradrenaline and dopamine, from its storage sites in nerve terminals in the CNS, and inhibits their uptake within the mesocorticolimbic system, a major component of the brain reward system, resulting in measurable behavioral changes such as euphoria, mental alertness and excitement and appetite suppression. As a CNS stimulant, this agent may increase blood pressure.
d-amphetamine	The d-form of AMPHETAMINE. It is a central nervous system stimulant and a sympathomimetic. It has also been used in the treatment of narcolepsy and of attention deficit disorders and hyperactivity in children. Dextroamphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulating release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. It is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic.
desoxyephedrine	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
deoxyephedrine	A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
modafinilo	A benzhydryl acetamide compound, central nervous system stimulant, and CYP3A4 inducing agent that is used in the treatment of NARCOLEPSY and SLEEP WAKE DISORDERS.
nizethamid	A central nervous system stimulant. It was formerly used in the treatment of barbiturate overdose but is now considered to be of no value for such purposes and may be dangerous. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1229)
rnax pain actions	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
electrosleep	Profound stupor produced by passing an electric current through the brain.
managing pain	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
non-drug pain management	<h3>What is pain?</h3> <p><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pain.html">Pain</a> is a signal in your nervous system that something may be wrong. It is an unpleasant feeling, such as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache. Pain may be sharp or dull. It may come and go, or it may be constant. You may feel pain in one area of your body, such as your <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/backpain.html">back</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/abdominalpain.html">abdomen</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/chestpain.html">chest</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pelvicpain.html">pelvis</a>, or you may feel pain all over.</p> <p>There are two types of pain:</p> <ul> <li><strong>Acute pain</strong> usually comes on suddenly, because of a disease, injury, or inflammation. It can often be diagnosed and treated. It usually goes away, though sometimes it can turn into <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/chronicpain.html">chronic pain</a>.</li> <li><strong>Chronic pain</strong> lasts for a long time, and can cause severe problems</li> </ul> <h3>What are pain relievers?</h3> <p><a href="https://medlineplus.gov/painrelievers.html">Pain relievers</a> are medicines that reduce or relieve pain. There are many different pain medicines, and each one has advantages and risks. Some are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/overthecountermedicines.html">over-the-counter</a> (OTC) medicines. Others are stronger medicines, which are available by prescription. The most powerful prescription pain relievers are opioids. They are very effective, but people who take them are at risk of <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddiction.html">addiction</a> and <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/opioidoverdose.html">overdose</a>.</p> <p>Because of the side effects and risks of pain relievers, you may want to try non-drug treatments first. And if you do need to take medicines, also doing some non-drug treatments may allow you to take a lower dose.</p> <h3>What are some non-drug treatments for pain?</h3> <p>There are many non-drug treatments that can help with pain. It is important to check with your health care provider before trying any of them:</p> <ul> <li><strong>Acupuncture</strong> involves stimulating acupuncture points. These are specific points on your body. There are different acupuncture methods. The most common one involves inserting thin needles through the skin. Others include using pressure, electrical stimulation, and heat. Acupuncture is based on the belief that qi (vital energy) flows through the body along paths, called meridians. Practitioners believe that stimulating the acupuncture points can rebalance the qi. Research suggests that acupuncture can help manage certain pain conditions.</li> <li><strong>Biofeedback techniques</strong> use electronic devices to measure body functions such as breathing and heart rate. This teaches you to be more aware of your body functions so you can learn to control them. For example, a biofeedback device may show you measurements of your muscle tension. By watching how these measurements change, you can become more aware of when your muscles are tense and learn to relax them. Biofeedback may help to control pain, including chronic headaches and back pain.</li> <li><strong>Electrical stimulation</strong> involves using a device to send a gentle electric current to your nerves or muscles. This can help treat pain by interrupting or blocking the pain signals. Types include</li> <ul> <li>Transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS)</li> <li>Implanted electric nerve stimulation</li> <li>Deep brain or spinal cord stimulation</li> </ul> <li><strong>Massage therapy</strong> is a treatment in which the soft tissues of the body are kneaded, rubbed, tapped, and stroked. Among other benefits, it may help people relax, and relieve stress and pain.</li> <li><strong>Meditation</strong> is a mind-body practice in which you focus your attention on something, such as an object, word, phrase, or breathing. This helps you to minimize distracting or stressful thoughts or feelings.</li> <li><strong>Physical therapy</strong> uses techniques such as heat, cold, exercise, massage, and manipulation. It can help to control pain, as well as condition muscles and restore strength.</li> <li><strong>Psychotherapy</strong> (talk therapy) uses methods such as discussion, listening, and counseling to treat mental and behavioral disorders. It can also help people who have pain, especially chronic pain, by</li> <ul> <li>Teaching them coping skills, to be able to better deal with the stress that pain can cause</li> <li>Addressing negative thoughts and emotions that can make pain worse</li> <li>Providing them with support</li> </ul> <li><strong>Relaxation therapy</strong> can help reduce muscle tension and stress, lower blood pressure, and control pain. It may involve tensing and relaxing muscles throughout the body. It may be used with guided imagery (focusing the mind on positive images) and meditation.</li> <li><strong>Surgery</strong> can sometimes be necessary to treat severe pain, especially when it is caused by back problems or serious musculoskeletal injuries. There are always risks to getting surgery, and it does not always work to treat pain. So it is important to go through all of the risks and benefits with your health care provider.</li> </ul>
pain management	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
analgesia	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
pain control assessment	Assessing a patient's pain levels to plan his or her pain management.
pain managements	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
pain control	Actions performed to support responses to injury or damage
taking vital signs	Actions performed to measure temperature, pulse, respirations, and blood pressure
giving pain relief	A lessening of pain following an intervention.
analgesias	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
management pain	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
provides pain management instruction	Provides information about the purpose; administration; and desired, side, and adverse effects of prescribed medications and non-pharmacological techniques for managing pain.
epidural analgesia	The relief of pain without loss of consciousness through the introduction of an analgesic agent into the epidural space of the vertebral canal. It is differentiated from ANESTHESIA, EPIDURAL which refers to the state of insensitivity to sensation.
nerve block	Interruption of NEURAL CONDUCTION in peripheral nerves or nerve trunks by the injection of a local anesthetic agent (e.g., LIDOCAINE; PHENOL; BOTULINUM TOXINS) to manage or treat pain.
electrical stimulation pain therapy	The use of external electrical current to stimulate nerves for the purpose of reducing pain.
celiac plexus neurolysis	A treatment that involves injection of local anesthetic and alcohol to the celiac plexus, causing temporary degeneration of the nerve fibers. The procedure is performed in an effort to alleviate intractable pain, generally caused by cancer or chronic pancreatitis.
quadratus lumborum block	A technique for regional anesthesia that uses ultrasound-guided injection of an anesthetic agent into the posterior abdominal wall.
supportive care	Supportive care is that which helps the patient and their family to cope with cancer and treatment of it from pre-diagnosis, through the process of diagnosis and treatment, to cure, continuing illness or death and into bereavement. It helps the patient to maximize the benefits of treatment and to live as well as possible with the effects of the disease. Supportive therapy may provide a patient with friendship, encouragement, practical advice such as access to community resources or how to develop a more active social life, vocational counseling, suggestions for minimizing friction with family members, and, above all, hope that the life of the patient may be improved. In all situations, supportive therapy involves the teaching of such life skills as managing medication, learning to socialize, handling finances, and getting a job.
controlling pain	Actions performed to support responses to injury or damage
pain controll	absence of sensibility to pain; relief of pain without the loss of consciousness.
hyperthermia therapy	abnormally high body temperature intentionally induced regionally or in the whole body for therapeutic purposes.
scrambler therapy	A type of treatment for nerve pain that uses electrodes placed on the skin. Electricity is carried from the electrodes through the skin and blocks the pain. The pain may be caused by physical injury, infection, toxic substances, and certain diseases or drugs, including anticancer drugs.
support	Supportive care is that which helps the patient and their family to cope with cancer and treatment of it from pre-diagnosis, through the process of diagnosis and treatment, to cure, continuing illness or death and into bereavement. It helps the patient to maximize the benefits of treatment and to live as well as possible with the effects of the disease. Supportive therapy may provide a patient with friendship, encouragement, practical advice such as access to community resources or how to develop a more active social life, vocational counseling, suggestions for minimizing friction with family members, and, above all, hope that the life of the patient may be improved. In all situations, supportive therapy involves the teaching of such life skills as managing medication, learning to socialize, handling finances, and getting a job.
congenital insensitivity pain	A syndrome characterized by indifference to PAIN despite the ability to distinguish noxious from non-noxious stimuli. Absent corneal reflexes and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may be associated. Familial forms with autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant patterns of inheritance have been described. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1343)
neurologic organ system	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
congenital analgesia	A syndrome characterized by indifference to PAIN despite the ability to distinguish noxious from non-noxious stimuli. Absent corneal reflexes and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may be associated. Familial forms with autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant patterns of inheritance have been described. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1343)
congenital indifference to pain	A syndrome characterized by indifference to PAIN despite the ability to distinguish noxious from non-noxious stimuli. Absent corneal reflexes and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may be associated. Familial forms with autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant patterns of inheritance have been described. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1343)
neurologic	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
mitoxantronum	An anthracenedione-derived antineoplastic agent.
pain killer drug	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
product containing tolfenamic acid	An orally available, benzoic acid derivative and a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, analgesic and potential anti-neoplastic activities. Tolfenamic acid inhibits the activity of the enzymes cyclooxygenase (COX) I and II, resulting in a decreased formation of precursors of prostaglandins and thromboxanes. The decrease in prostaglandin synthesis results in the therapeutic effects of this agent. Tolfenamic acid also inhibits thromboxane A2 synthesis, by thromboxane synthase, which decreases platelet aggregation. In addition, this agent exerts anti-tumor effects through COX-dependent and independent pathways. Specifically, this agent induces the production of reactive oxygen species, causes DNA damage, increases nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) activation and the expression of activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) and NSAID-activated gene-1 (NAG1), and inhibits the expression of specificity proteins (Sp), which reduces the expression of Sp-dependent anti-apoptotic and growth-promoting proteins. Altogether, this enhances tumor cell apoptosis, and reduces tumor cell growth and angiogenesis.
vapreotide	A substance that is being studied in the treatment of cancer. It belongs to the family of drugs called somatostatin analogs.
pirfenidone	An orally active synthetic antifibrotic agent structurally similar to pyridine 2,4-dicarboxylate. Pirfenidone inhibits fibroblast, epidermal, platelet-derived, and transforming beta-1 growth factors, thereby slowing tumor cell proliferation. This agent also inhibits DNA synthesis and the production of mRNA for collagen types I and III, resulting in a reduction in radiation-induced fibrosis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2635" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2635" NCI Thesaurus)
analgesic drug	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
choline magnesium trisalicylate	A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) belonging to the salicylate family. Choline magnesium trisalicylate inhibits inflammation-related prostaglandin synthesis. This agent's analgesic effect is mediated through peripheral and central pathways, resulting in a decrease in pain perception; its antipyretic effect is mediated via the hypothalamic heat regulation center. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29244" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29244" NCI Thesaurus)
duloxetine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of duloxetine, a fluoxetine derivative belonging to the class of selective serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) reuptake inhibitors (SSNRIs) and exhibiting antidepressant activity. Duloxetine selectively prevents the reuptake of 5-HT and NE via transporter complexes on the pre-synaptic membrane, thereby increasing the level of these neurotransmitters within the synaptic cleft. As a result, this agent potentiates serotonergic and noradrenergic activities in the central nervous system, and alleviates depression and neuropathy sensations, such as pain and tingling. Furthermore, duloxetine does not show significant affinity for dopaminergic, adrenergic, cholinergic, histaminergic, opioid, glutamate, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors.
tanezumab	A humanized monoclonal antibody directed against nerve growth factor (NGF), a modulator of nociceptor function, with potential analgesic activity. Tanezumab binds to NGF and prevents NGF binding to its high affinity, membrane-bound, catalytic receptor tropomyosin-related kinase A (TrkA), which is present on sympathetic and sensory neurons; reduced stimulation of TrkA by NGF inhibits the pain-transmission activities of these neurons. NGF, a neurotrophin, is critical to the growth and maintenance of sympathetic and sensory neurons. In addition, NGF may induce mast cells to release inflammatory proteins and may induce the upregulation of substance P and other pain-related peptides in sympathetic and sensory neurons. Upon neurotrophin binding, TrkA phosphorylates itself and members of the MAPK pathway, mediating the multiple neuronal effects of NGF.
thc and cbd mixture	An herbal preparation containing a defined quantity of specific cannabinoids formulated for oromucosal spray administration with potential analgesic activity. Nabiximols contains a standardized extract of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the non-psychoactive cannabinoid cannabidiol (CBD), other minor cannabinoids, flavonoids, and terpenes from two cannabis plant varieties. Cannabinoids interact with G protein-coupled cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptors in the central nervous system, resulting in analgesic, euphoric, and anticonvulsive effects.
pain medicines	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
klofenil	An imidazoline sympatholytic agent that stimulates ALPHA-2 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and central IMIDAZOLINE RECEPTORS. It is commonly used in the management of HYPERTENSION.
flurbiprofene	An anti-inflammatory analgesic and antipyretic of the phenylalkynoic acid series. It has been shown to reduce bone resorption in periodontal disease by inhibiting CARBONIC ANHYDRASE.
ketamine	A cyclohexanone derivative used for induction of anesthesia. Its mechanism of action is not well understood, but ketamine can block NMDA receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE) and may interact with sigma receptors.
anodyne	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
pain medication	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
flurbiprofen product	An anti-inflammatory analgesic and antipyretic of the phenylalkynoic acid series. It has been shown to reduce bone resorption in periodontal disease by inhibiting CARBONIC ANHYDRASE.
clonidina	An imidazoline sympatholytic agent that stimulates ALPHA-2 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and central IMIDAZOLINE RECEPTORS. It is commonly used in the management of HYPERTENSION.
flurbiprofen	An anti-inflammatory analgesic and antipyretic of the phenylalkynoic acid series. It has been shown to reduce bone resorption in periodontal disease by inhibiting CARBONIC ANHYDRASE.
magnesium sulfate	A small colorless crystal used as an anticonvulsant, a cathartic, and an electrolyte replenisher in the treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. It causes direct inhibition of action potentials in myometrial muscle cells. Excitation and contraction are uncoupled, which decreases the frequency and force of contractions. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1083)
salicylates	The salts or esters of salicylic acids, or salicylate esters of an organic acid. Some of these have analgesic, antipyretic, and anti-inflammatory activities by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis.
clonidine	An imidazoline sympatholytic agent that stimulates ALPHA-2 ADRENERGIC RECEPTORS and central IMIDAZOLINE RECEPTORS. It is commonly used in the management of HYPERTENSION.
magnesium sulphate	A small colorless crystal used as an anticonvulsant, a cathartic, and an electrolyte replenisher in the treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. It causes direct inhibition of action potentials in myometrial muscle cells. Excitation and contraction are uncoupled, which decreases the frequency and force of contractions. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1083)
damme	En stabil, syntetisk analog till metioninenkefalin, med verkningsmekanism liknande den hos metioninenkefalin. Dess verkan kan upphävas med narkotiska antagonister som t ex naloxon.
pain killers	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
opioid misuse and addiction	<p>Opioids, sometimes called narcotics, are a type of drug. They include strong prescription <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/painrelievers.html">pain relievers</a>, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and tramadol. The illegal drug <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/heroin.html">heroin</a> is also an opioid. Some opioids are made from the opium plant, and others are synthetic (man-made).</p> <p>A doctor may give you a prescription opioid to reduce pain after you have had a major injury or surgery. You may get them if you have severe pain from health conditions like cancer. Some doctors prescribe them for <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/chronicpain.html">chronic pain</a>.</p> <p>Opioids can cause side effects such as drowsiness, mental fog, nausea, and constipation. They may also cause slowed breathing, which can lead to overdose deaths. If someone has signs of an <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/opioidoverdose.html">overdose</a>, call 911:</p> <ul> <li>The person's face is extremely pale and/or feels clammy to the touch</li> <li>Their body goes limp</li> <li>Their fingernails or lips have a purple or blue color</li> <li>They start vomiting or making gurgling noises</li> <li>They cannot be awakened or are unable to speak</li> <li>Their breathing or heartbeat slows or stops</li> </ul> <p>Other risks of using prescription opioids include dependence and addiction. Dependence means feeling withdrawal symptoms when not taking the drug. Addiction is a chronic brain disease that causes a person to compulsively seek out drugs, even though they cause harm. The risks of dependence and addiction are higher if you <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/prescriptiondrugmisuse.html">misuse the medicines</a>. Misuse can include taking too much medicine, taking someone else's medicine, taking it in a different way than you are supposed to, or taking the medicine to get high.</p> <p>Opioid misuse, addiction, and overdoses are serious public health problems in the United States. Another problem is that more women are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyanddruguse.html">misusing opioids during pregnancy</a>. This can lead to babies being addicted and going through withdrawal, known as neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). Opioid misuse may sometimes also lead to heroin use, because some people switch from prescription opioids to heroin.</p> <p>The main <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/opioidmisuseandaddictiontreatment.html">treatment for prescription opioid addiction</a> is medication-assisted treatment (MAT). It includes medicines, counseling, and support from family and friends. MAT can help you stop using the drug, get through withdrawal, and cope with cravings. There is also a medicine called naloxone which can reverse the effects of an opioid overdose and prevent death, if it is given in time.</p> <p>To <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/safeopioiduse.html">prevent problems with prescription opioids</a>, be sure to follow your doctor's instructions when taking them. Do not share your medicines with anyone else. Contact your doctor if you have any concerns about taking the medicines.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse</p>
analgesics drug	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
heroin	A narcotic analgesic that may be habit-forming. It is a controlled substance (opium derivative) listed in the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21 Parts 329.1, 1308.11 (1987). Sale is forbidden in the United States by Federal statute. (Merck Index, 11th ed)
pain relievers	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
ergotamines	A vasoconstrictor found in ergot of Central Europe. It is a serotonin agonist that has been used as an oxytocic agent and in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS.
etorfina	A narcotic analgesic morphinan used as a sedative in veterinary practice.
hydrocodone	Narcotic analgesic related to CODEINE, but more potent and more addicting by weight. It is used also as cough suppressant.
product containing meptazinol	A narcotic antagonist with analgesic properties. It is used for the control of moderate to severe pain.
metisergido	An ergot derivative that is a congener of LYSERGIC ACID DIETHYLAMIDE. It antagonizes the effects of serotonin in blood vessels and gastrointestinal smooth muscle, but has few of the properties of other ergot alkaloids. Methysergide is used prophylactically in migraine and other vascular headaches and to antagonize serotonin in the carcinoid syndrome.
morphine	The principal alkaloid in opium and the prototype opiate analgesic and narcotic. Morphine has widespread effects in the central nervous system and on smooth muscle.
nalbuphine	A narcotic used as a pain medication. It appears to be an agonist at KAPPA RECEPTORS and an antagonist or partial agonist at MU RECEPTORS.
alphaprodine hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of alphaprodine, a synthetic piperidine ester, with opioid analgesic activity. Alphaprodine mimics the actions of endogenous neuropeptides by binding to opioid receptors, thereby producing characteristic morphine-like effects via the mu-opioid receptor, including analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, miosis, bradycardia, and physical dependence.
opium	The air-dried exudate from the unripe seed capsule of the opium poppy, Papaver somniferum, or its variant, P. album. It contains a number of alkaloids, but only a few - MORPHINE; CODEINE; and PAPAVERINE - have clinical significance. Opium has been used as an analgesic, antitussive, antidiarrheal, and antispasmodic.
oxycodone	A semisynthetic derivative of CODEINE.
pentazocine	The first mixed agonist-antagonist analgesic to be marketed. It is an agonist at the kappa and sigma opioid receptors and has a weak antagonist action at the mu receptor. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1991, p97)
phenazocine	An opioid analgesic with actions and uses similar to MORPHINE. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1095)
tramadol	A narcotic analgesic proposed for severe pain. It may be habituating.
anileridine	An opioid receptor agonist belonging to the piperidine class with analgesic activity. By binding to and activating opioid receptors in the central nervous sytem (CNS), anileridine mimics the endogenous opioids resulting in a decrease of nociceptve neurotransmitters and eventually an analgesic effect.
morphine sulfate	The sulfate salt of morphine, an opiate alkaloid isolated from the plant Papaver somniferum and produced synthetically. Morphine binds to and activates specific opiate receptors (delta, mu and kappa), each of which are involved in controlling different brain functions. In the central nervous and gastrointestinal systems, this agent has widespread effects including analgesia, anxiolysis, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, and gastrointestinal system smooth muscle contraction.
remifentanil product	A piperidine-propionate derivative and opioid analgesic structurally related to FENTANYL. It functions as a short-acting MU OPIOID RECEPTOR agonist, and is used as an analgesic during induction or maintenance of general anesthesia, following surgery, during childbirth, and in mechanically ventilated patients under intensive care.
heroin hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of a diacetyl derivative of the opiate morphine, a naturally occurring alkaloid extracted from the seedpod of the Asian poppy (Papaver sp.). Once administered, diamorphine (or diacetylmorphine) is rapidly hydrolyzed to 6-monoacetylmorphine (6-MAM) and then to the end-product morphine which binds to opiate receptors located throughout the mammalian nervous and gastrointestinal systems. Inducing a potent analgesia, the use of diamoprhine is often escalated due to a tolerance effect, resulting in abuse that is associated with fatal overdose, abortion, venous sclerosis, and opportunistic infections, among other adverse effects. (NCI04)
oxycodone hydrochloride	A drug used to treat moderate to severe pain. It is made from morphine and binds to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. Oxycodone hydrochloride is a type of analgesic agent and a type of opiate.
oxymorphone hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of oxymorphone, a semisynthetic opioid with a potent analgesic property. Oxymorphone hydrochloride binds to and activates opiate receptors, specifically mu-receptors, in the central nervous system (CNS). This results in sedation, analgesia, decreased gastrointestinal motility, and respiratory depression.
hydrocodone bitartrate	The bitartrate salt form of hydrocodone, a semisynthetic hydrogenated codeine derivative and opioid agonist with analgesic and antitussive effects. Hydrocodone primarily binds to and activates the mu-opioid receptor in the central nervous system (CNS). This leads to analgesia, euphoria, respiratory depression, miosis, decreased gastrointestinal motility, cough suppression and physical dependence. Hydrocodone is converted to hydromorphone by the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2D6.
synthetic narcotics oxycodone terephthalate	The terephthalate salt of oxycodone, a methylether of oxymorphone and semisynthetic, agonistic opioid with analgesic and antitussic properties. Oxycodone terephthalate exerts its analgesic actions by binding to the mu-receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), thereby mimicking the effects of endogenous opiates. By binding to the mu-opioid receptors, oxycodone terephthalate also causes euphoria, anxiolysis, miosis, sedation, physical dependence, constipation, respiratory depression as well as a depressive effect on the cough center in the medulla.
buprenorphine hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of buprenorphine, a synthetic phenanthrene with narcotic analgesic activity. Buprenorphine hydrochloride is a partial agonist at the mu-opioid receptor and an antagonist at the kapa-opioid receptor in the central nervous system. However, under the conditions of recommended use it behaves as a classic mu-opioid agonist, mimicking the actions of endogenous peptides at CNS opioid receptors. The agonist action results in a raised pain threshold and increased tolerance to pain. However, it also causes sedation, physical dependence, and respiratory depressant effects and decreases heart rate and blood pressure.
methadone hcl	The hydrochloride salt of methadone, a synthetic opioid with analgesic activity. Similar to morphine and other morphine-like agents, methadone mimics the actions of endogenous peptides at CNS opioid receptors, primarily the mu-receptor, resulting in characteristic morphine-like effects including analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, miosis, bradycardia and physical dependence. Because of the prolonged half-life of methadone compared to other morphine-like agents such as heroin, the onset of opiate withdrawal symptoms is slower, the duration of opiate withdrawal is prolonged, and opiate withdrawal symptoms are less severe.
opium tincture	Also known as laudanum and formulated for oral administration, opium tincture is made of air-dried poppy (Papaver somniferum) latex and contains alkaloids such as morphine and codeine. As an antidiarrheal agent, it slows transit of intestinal contents by increasing intestinal smooth muscle tone and inhibiting motility; water is absorbed from fecal contents, decreasing diarrhea. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29300" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29300" NCI Thesaurus)
tapentadol	An orally available, synthetic benzenoid that acts as an agonist for the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) and inhibits the reuptake of noradrenaline, with potential anti-nociceptive activity. Upon oral administration, tapentadol binds to the MOR which enhances MOR-mediated signaling, interferes with the sensation of pain and results in an analgesic effect. Tapentadol also inhibits the reuptake of noradrenaline, which increases the levels of noradrenaline (NA), activates the inhibitory alpha-2 receptors and results in an analgesic effect.
tramadol hcl	A drug used to treat moderate to severe pain in adults. It binds to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. Tramadol hydrochloride is a type of analgesic agent and a type of opioid.
tapentadol hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of tapentadol, an orally available, synthetic benzenoid that acts as an agonist for the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) and inhibits the reuptake of noradrenaline, with potential anti-nociceptive activity. Upon oral administration, tapentadol binds to the MOR which enhances MOR-mediated signaling, interferes with the sensation of pain and results in an analgesic effect. Tapentadol also inhibits the reuptake of noradrenaline, which increases the levels of noradrenaline (NA), activates the inhibitory alpha-2 receptors and results in an analgesic effect.
pharmaceutical products	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
pain-relief medication	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
pizotifen	Serotonin antagonist used against MIGRAINE DISORDERS and vascular headaches.
patient controlled analgesia	Relief of PAIN, without loss of CONSCIOUSNESS, through ANALGESIC AGENTS administered by the patients. It has been used successfully to control POSTOPERATIVE PAIN, during OBSTETRIC LABOR, after BURNS, and in TERMINAL CARE. The choice of agent, dose, and lockout interval greatly influence effectiveness. The potential for overdose can be minimized by combining small bolus doses with a mandatory interval between successive doses (lockout interval).
duloxetine	A drug used to treat depression and peripheral neuropathy (pain, numbness, tingling, burning, or weakness in the hands or feet) that can occur with diabetes. It is also being studied in the treatment of peripheral neuropathy caused by certain anticancer drugs. Cymbalta increases the amount of certain chemicals in the brain that help relieve depression and pain. It is a type of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor.
analgesic administration	Use of pharmacologic agents to reduce or eliminate pain
infliximab	a drug used to treat autoimmune disorders
recombinant human tnf	A recombinant version of soluble human TNF receptor fused to an IgG FC fragment that binds specifically to TUMOR NECROSIS FACTOR and inhibits its binding with endogenous TNF receptors. It prevents the inflammatory effect of TNF and is used to treat RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS; PSORIATIC ARTHRITIS and ANKYLOSING SPONDYLITIS.
patient controlled epidural analgesia	A method of analgesia that uses an epidural catheter and a pump to allow the patient to administer predetermined doses of analgesic into the epidural space as needed to maintain adequate pain control.
anti-inflammatory agent	Substances that reduce or suppress INFLAMMATION.
aspirin	The prototypical analgesic used in the treatment of mild to moderate pain. It has anti-inflammatory and antipyretic properties and acts as an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase which results in the inhibition of the biosynthesis of prostaglandins. Aspirin also inhibits platelet aggregation and is used in the prevention of arterial and venous thrombosis. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p5)
papaverine	An alkaloid found in opium but not closely related to the other opium alkaloids in its structure or pharmacological actions. It is a direct-acting smooth muscle relaxant used in the treatment of impotence and as a vasodilator, especially for cerebral vasodilation. The mechanism of its pharmacological actions is not clear, but it apparently can inhibit phosphodiesterases and it may have direct actions on calcium channels.
opioid product	A substance used to treat moderate to severe pain. Opioids are like opiates, such as morphine and codeine, but are not made from opium. Opioids bind to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. An opioid is a type of alkaloid.
non-narcotic analgesics	A subclass of analgesic agents that typically do not bind to OPIOID RECEPTORS and are not addictive. Many non-narcotic analgesics are offered as NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
opiates	sedative narcotics containing opium
analgesic preparation	Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS.
antipyrine	An analgesic and antipyretic that has been given by mouth and as ear drops. Antipyrine is often used in testing the effects of other drugs or diseases on drug-metabolizing enzymes in the liver. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p29)
para-amino salicylic acid	antitubercular agent often administered in association with isoniazid.
opiate agonist agent	A substance used to treat moderate to severe pain. Opioids are like opiates, such as morphine and codeine, but are not made from opium. Opioids bind to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. An opioid is a type of alkaloid.
buprenorphine product	A derivative of the opioid alkaloid THEBAINE that is a more potent and longer lasting analgesic than MORPHINE. It appears to act as a partial agonist at mu and kappa opioid receptors and as an antagonist at delta receptors. The lack of delta-agonist activity has been suggested to account for the observation that buprenorphine tolerance may not develop with chronic use.
etorphine	A narcotic analgesic morphinan used as a sedative in veterinary practice.
meptazinol [anaesthesia]	A narcotic antagonist with analgesic properties. It is used for the control of moderate to severe pain.
product containing methadone	A synthetic opioid that is used as the hydrochloride. It is an opioid analgesic that is primarily a mu-opioid agonist. It has actions and uses similar to those of MORPHINE. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1082-3)
oximorfona	An opioid analgesic with actions and uses similar to those of MORPHINE, apart from an absence of cough suppressant activity. It is used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain, including pain in obstetrics. It may also be used as an adjunct to anesthesia. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1092)
phenanthrenes	POLYCYCLIC AROMATIC HYDROCARBONS composed of three fused BENZENE rings.
piritramida	A diphenylpropylamine with intense narcotic analgesic activity of long duration. It is a derivative of MEPERIDINE with similar activity and usage.
tilidine	An opioid analgesic used similarly to MORPHINE in the control of moderate to severe pain. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1097)
sufentanil	An opioid analgesic that is used as an adjunct in anesthesia, in balanced anesthesia, and as a primary anesthetic agent.
sufentanil citrate	The citrate salt form of sufentanil, a synthetic congener of fentanyl and related to the phenylpieridines, with analgesic property. Sufentanil citrate binds to and activates the mu-opioid receptor, thereby producing analgesia, respiratory depression, miosis, reduced gastrointestinal motility, and euphoria. In addition, this agent has a more rapid onset of action and shorter duration of action compared to fentanyl.
remifentanyl	A piperidine-propionate derivative and opioid analgesic structurally related to FENTANYL. It functions as a short-acting MU OPIOID RECEPTOR agonist, and is used as an analgesic during induction or maintenance of general anesthesia, following surgery, during childbirth, and in mechanically ventilated patients under intensive care.
levomethadyl acetate hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of levomethadyl acetate, a synthetic mu-receptor agonist with analgesic activity. Levomethadyl acetate hydrochloride mimics the actions of endogenous peptides at CNS opioid receptors, including analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, miosis, bradycardia and physical dependence. Levomethadyl acetate hydrochloride has less severe withdrawal symptoms compared to the morphine-like agents. In addition, with chronic use, levomethadyl acetate hydrochloride produces cross-tolerance to the effects of other mu-receptor agonists, thereby decreasing the physical dependence.
oxymorphone hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of oxymorphone, a semisynthetic opioid with a potent analgesic property. Oxymorphone hydrochloride binds to and activates opiate receptors, specifically mu-receptors, in the central nervous system (CNS). This results in sedation, analgesia, decreased gastrointestinal motility, and respiratory depression.
pentazocine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of pentazocine, a benzomorphan narcotic agonist-antagonist. Pentazocine hydrochloride binds to and activates kappa- and sigma-opioid receptors, resulting in sedation and analgesia. In addition, this agent antagonizes the mu-receptor. Pentazocine hydrochloride partially reverses opiate-induced cardiovascular, respiratory, and behavioral depression.
ketamine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of a synthetic derivative of cyclohexanone with analgesic and anesthetic activities. Although its mechanism of action is not well understood, ketamine appears to non-competitively block N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and may interact with opiod mu receptors and sigma receptors, thereby reducing pain perception, inducing sedation, and producing dissociative anesthesia. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29142" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29142" NCI Thesaurus)
methadone hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of methadone, a synthetic opioid with analgesic activity. Similar to morphine and other morphine-like agents, methadone mimics the actions of endogenous peptides at CNS opioid receptors, primarily the mu-receptor, resulting in characteristic morphine-like effects including analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, miosis, bradycardia and physical dependence. Because of the prolonged half-life of methadone compared to other morphine-like agents such as heroin, the onset of opiate withdrawal symptoms is slower, the duration of opiate withdrawal is prolonged, and opiate withdrawal symptoms are less severe.
opiate antagonists remifentanil hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of remifentanil, a synthetic anilidopiperidine derivative and short-acting opiate agonist with analgesic and anesthetic properties. Remifentanil selectively binds to and activates the mu-opioid receptor, thereby producing analgesia, respiratory depression, miosis, reduced gastrointestinal motility, and euphoria.
tramadol hydrochloride	A drug used to treat moderate to severe pain in adults. It binds to opioid receptors in the central nervous system. Tramadol hydrochloride is a type of analgesic agent and a type of opioid.
esketamine	A cyclohexanone derivative and S-enantiomer of racemic ketamine, with analgesic, anesthetic and antidepressant activities. Although the mechanism of action is not fully understood, upon administration, esketamine targets, non-competitively binds to, and blocks N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. This reduces pain perception, induces sedation, and produce dissociative anesthesia.
agents antiinflamm	Substances that reduce or suppress INFLAMMATION.
ergotamina	A vasoconstrictor found in ergot of Central Europe. It is a serotonin agonist that has been used as an oxytocic agent and in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS.
dietary supplements liver preparations	Extracts of liver tissue containing uncharacterized specific factors with specific activities; a soluble thermostable fraction of mammalian liver is used in the treatment of pernicious anemia.
analgesia controlled patient	Relief of PAIN, without loss of CONSCIOUSNESS, through ANALGESIC AGENTS administered by the patients. It has been used successfully to control POSTOPERATIVE PAIN, during OBSTETRIC LABOR, after BURNS, and in TERMINAL CARE. The choice of agent, dose, and lockout interval greatly influence effectiveness. The potential for overdose can be minimized by combining small bolus doses with a mandatory interval between successive doses (lockout interval).
cromolyn	chromone complex which blocks mast cell degeneration; primarily used as an antiasthmatic; also an orphan drug for the treatment of mastocytosis and vernal keratoconjunctivitis.
administered analgesia	Use of pharmacologic agents to reduce or eliminate pain
etanercept	A recombinant version of soluble human TNF receptor fused to an IgG FC fragment that binds specifically to TUMOR NECROSIS FACTOR and inhibits its binding with endogenous TNF receptors. It prevents the inflammatory effect of TNF and is used to treat RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS; PSORIATIC ARTHRITIS and ANKYLOSING SPONDYLITIS.
adalimumab product	A recombinant, human IgG1 monoclonal antibody directed against tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), with immunomodulating activity. Upon administration, adalimumab binds to TNF-alpha, thereby preventing its binding to the p55 and p75 TNF cell surface receptors and inhibiting TNF-mediated immune responses. TNF-alpha, a pro-inflammatory cytokine, is upregulated in various autoimmune diseases.
