dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine	Synthetic phospholipid used in liposomes and lipid bilayers to study biological membranes. It is also a major constituent of PULMONARY SURFACTANTS.
colfosceril palmitate	A lung surfactant agent that is used as a replacement for endogenous lung surfactant. Colfosceril palmitate is effective in reducing the surface tension of pulmonary fluids, thereby increasing lung compliance properties to prevent alveolar collapse and improve breathing. This drug is used in the treatment of neonatal respiratory distress.
phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoyl	Synthetic phospholipid used in liposomes and lipid bilayers to study biological membranes. It is also a major constituent of PULMONARY SURFACTANTS.
acid, phosphatidic	Simplest form of dietary phospholipid consisting of glycerol bound to two fatty acids and a phosphate group.
1,2-dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine	Synthetic phospholipid used in liposomes and lipid bilayers to study biological membranes. It is also a major constituent of PULMONARY SURFACTANTS.
colfosceril palmitate [dup] (substance)	A lung surfactant agent that is used as a replacement for endogenous lung surfactant. Colfosceril palmitate is effective in reducing the surface tension of pulmonary fluids, thereby increasing lung compliance properties to prevent alveolar collapse and improve breathing. This drug is used in the treatment of neonatal respiratory distress.
1,2 dipalmitoyl glycerophosphocholine	Synthetic phospholipid used in liposomes and lipid bilayers to study biological membranes. It is also a major constituent of PULMONARY SURFACTANTS.
phosphatidic acid	Simplest form of dietary phospholipid consisting of glycerol bound to two fatty acids and a phosphate group.
starch branching enzyme	In glycogen or amylopectin synthesis, the enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a segment of a 1,4-alpha-glucan chain to a primary hydroxy group in a similar glucan chain. EC 2.4.1.18.
hexosyltransferases	Enzymes that catalyze the transfer of hexose groups. EC 2.4.1.-.
glucan branching enzyme	In glycogen or amylopectin synthesis, the enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a segment of a 1,4-alpha-glucan chain to a primary hydroxy group in a similar glucan chain. EC 2.4.1.18.
hexosyltransferase (substance)	Enzymes that catalyze the transfer of hexose groups. EC 2.4.1.-.
amylo-(1,4->,6)-transglycosylase	In glycogen or amylopectin synthesis, the enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a segment of a 1,4-alpha-glucan chain to a primary hydroxy group in a similar glucan chain. EC 2.4.1.18.
q-enzyme	Catalysis of the transfer of a segment of a (1->4)-alpha-D-glucan chain to a primary hydroxyl group in a similar glucan chain. [EC:2.4.1.18]
ibmx	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
phosphodiesterase inhibitor	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
isobutylmethylxanthine 03 01	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
substance with phosphodiesterase inhibitor mechanism of action (substance)	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
mibx	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
phosphodiesterase antag	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
phosphodiesterase inhibitor-containing product	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
phosphoric diester hydrolase inhib	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
3 isobutyl 1 methylxanthine	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
product containing phosphodiesterase inhibitor	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
isobutyltheophylline	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
methylisobutylxanthine 01 03	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
phosphodiesterase inhibitor product	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
1 methyl 3 isobutylxanthine	A potent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor; due to this action, the compound increases cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in tissue and thereby activates CYCLIC NUCLEOTIDE-REGULATED PROTEIN KINASES
phosphodiesterase inhibitors	Compounds which inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or actions of phosphodiesterases.
methylphenyltetrahydropyridine (substance)	A dopaminergic neurotoxic compound which produces irreversible clinical, chemical, and pathological alterations that mimic those found in Parkinson disease.
agents, dopamine	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
methylphenyltetrahydropyridine	A dopaminergic neurotoxic compound which produces irreversible clinical, chemical, and pathological alterations that mimic those found in Parkinson disease.
neurotoxins	Toxic substances from microorganisms, plants or animals that interfere with the functions of the nervous system. Most venoms contain neurotoxic substances. Myotoxins are included in this concept.
dopaminergic drugs	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
pyridine, 1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-1-methyl-4-phenyl-	A dopaminergic neurotoxic compound which produces irreversible clinical, chemical, and pathological alterations that mimic those found in Parkinson disease.
neurotoxin (substance)	Toxic substances from microorganisms, plants or animals that interfere with the functions of the nervous system. Most venoms contain neurotoxic substances. Myotoxins are included in this concept.
mptp	A dopaminergic neurotoxic compound which produces irreversible clinical, chemical, and pathological alterations that mimic those found in Parkinson disease.
pyridinium, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
n-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine	A dopaminergic neurotoxic compound which produces irreversible clinical, chemical, and pathological alterations that mimic those found in Parkinson disease.
dopamine agents	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
neurotoxin	Toxic substances from microorganisms, plants or animals that interfere with the functions of the nervous system. Most venoms contain neurotoxic substances. Myotoxins are included in this concept.
mptp - methylphenyltetrahydropyridine-induced parkinsonism	Tillstånd orsakat av nervgiftet MPTP, som ger upphov till selektiv förstörelses av nigrostriatala dopaminerga nervceller. Kliniska tecken är irreversibla parkinsonsymtom, som t ex stelhet och bradykinesi (sekundär parkinsonism). MPTP-förgiftning används även i djurmodeller för att studera Parkinsons sjukdom.
dopaminergic agents	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (mptp)	A dopaminergic neurotoxic compound which produces irreversible clinical, chemical, and pathological alterations that mimic those found in Parkinson disease.
agents, dopaminergic	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine	A dopaminergic neurotoxic compound which produces irreversible clinical, chemical, and pathological alterations that mimic those found in Parkinson disease.
mptp neurotoxicity syndrome	Tillstånd orsakat av nervgiftet MPTP, som ger upphov till selektiv förstörelses av nigrostriatala dopaminerga nervceller. Kliniska tecken är irreversibla parkinsonsymtom, som t ex stelhet och bradykinesi (sekundär parkinsonism). MPTP-förgiftning används även i djurmodeller för att studera Parkinsons sjukdom.
neurotoxicity syndrome, mptp	Tillstånd orsakat av nervgiftet MPTP, som ger upphov till selektiv förstörelses av nigrostriatala dopaminerga nervceller. Kliniska tecken är irreversibla parkinsonsymtom, som t ex stelhet och bradykinesi (sekundär parkinsonism). MPTP-förgiftning används även i djurmodeller för att studera Parkinsons sjukdom.
dopamine preparation	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
dopamine drugs	Any drugs that are used for their effects on dopamine receptors, on the life cycle of dopamine, or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons.
1 methyl 4 phenylpyridinium	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
herbicide	Pesticides used to destroy unwanted vegetation, especially various types of weeds, grasses (POACEAE), and woody plants. Some plants develop HERBICIDE RESISTANCE.
n-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
mpp+	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
herbicides	Pesticides used to destroy unwanted vegetation, especially various types of weeds, grasses (POACEAE), and woody plants. Some plants develop HERBICIDE RESISTANCE.
n methyl 4 phenylpyridine	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
1 methyl 4 phenylpyridine	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
herbicide (substance)	Pesticides used to destroy unwanted vegetation, especially various types of weeds, grasses (POACEAE), and woody plants. Some plants develop HERBICIDE RESISTANCE.
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
weedkiller	Pesticides used to destroy unwanted vegetation, especially various types of weeds, grasses (POACEAE), and woody plants. Some plants develop HERBICIDE RESISTANCE.
n-methyl-4-phenylpyridine	An active neurotoxic metabolite of 1-METHYL-4-PHENYL-1,2,3,6-TETRAHYDROPYRIDINE. The compound reduces dopamine levels, inhibits the biosynthesis of catecholamines, depletes cardiac norepinephrine and inactivates tyrosine hydroxylase. These and other toxic effects lead to cessation of oxidative phosphorylation, ATP depletion, and cell death. The compound, which is related to PARAQUAT, has also been used as an herbicide.
naphthalidine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
oncogenic substance	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
1-naththylamine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
oncogens	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
carcinogens	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
carcinogenic chemicals	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
alpha-naphthylamine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
carcinogen	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
chemical carcinogen	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
1 naphthylamine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
1-aminonaphthalene	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
2-naphthylamine	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
8 aminonaphthalene	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
carcinogen (disposition)	A substance that increases the risk of neoplasms in humans or animals either by directly affecting DNA or inducing neoplasms by other mechanisms
cancer causing agents	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
1-naphthylamine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
1-naphthalenamine	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
oncogenic substance, nos	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
8-aminonaphthalene	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
sar iso ang	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
antihypertensive drugs	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
angiotensin ii, 1-sarcosine-8-isoleucine	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
angiotensin ii type 1 receptor blockers	Agentes que antagonizan el RECEPTOR TIPO 1 DE ANGIOTENSINA II. Incluídos están los análogos de ANGIOTENSINA II tales como SARALASINA y bifenilimidazol tal como LOSARTAN. Algunos se usan como AGENTES ANTIHIPERTENSIVOS.
1-(n-methylglycine)-8-l-isoleucine-angiotensin ii	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
antihypertensive drug	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
1-sar-8-ile angiotensin ii	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
type 1 angiotensin receptor blockers	Agentes que antagonizan el RECEPTOR TIPO 1 DE ANGIOTENSINA II. Incluídos están los análogos de ANGIOTENSINA II tales como SARALASINA y bifenilimidazol tal como LOSARTAN. Algunos se usan como AGENTES ANTIHIPERTENSIVOS.
angiotensin ii, 1-sar-8-ile	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
anti hypertensives	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
1-sarcosine-8-isoleucine angiotensin ii	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
1 sarcosine 8 isoleucine angiotensin ii	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor agent (substance)	A class of drugs whose main indications are the treatment of hypertension and heart failure. They exert their hemodynamic effect mainly by inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system. They also modulate sympathetic nervous system activity and increase prostaglandin synthesis. They cause mainly vasodilation and mild natriuresis without affecting heart rate and contractility.
antihypertensive medicines	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
sarile	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
sarcosineisoleucineangiotensin 02 01 08	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
hypotensive agents	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
angiotensin ii, 1-(n-methylglycine)-8-l-isoleucine-	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
angiotensin 2 type 1 receptor antagonists	Agentes que antagonizan el RECEPTOR TIPO 1 DE ANGIOTENSINA II. Incluídos están los análogos de ANGIOTENSINA II tales como SARALASINA y bifenilimidazol tal como LOSARTAN. Algunos se usan como AGENTES ANTIHIPERTENSIVOS.
antihypertensive	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
type 1 angiotensin receptor antagonists	Agentes que antagonizan el RECEPTOR TIPO 1 DE ANGIOTENSINA II. Incluídos están los análogos de ANGIOTENSINA II tales como SARALASINA y bifenilimidazol tal como LOSARTAN. Algunos se usan como AGENTES ANTIHIPERTENSIVOS.
hypotensive agent	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
1 sar 8 ile angiotensin ii	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
angiotensin ii type 01 receptor blockers	Agentes que antagonizan el RECEPTOR TIPO 1 DE ANGIOTENSINA II. Incluídos están los análogos de ANGIOTENSINA II tales como SARALASINA y bifenilimidazol tal como LOSARTAN. Algunos se usan como AGENTES ANTIHIPERTENSIVOS.
antihypertensives	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
sar ile angiotensin 02 01 08	An ANGIOTENSIN II analog which acts as a highly specific inhibitor of ANGIOTENSIN TYPE 1 RECEPTOR.
high blood pressure medicines	Drugs used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular HYPERTENSION regardless of pharmacological mechanism. Among the antihypertensive agents are DIURETICS; (especially DIURETICS, THIAZIDE); ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS; ADRENERGIC ALPHA-ANTAGONISTS; ANGIOTENSIN-CONVERTING ENZYME INHIBITORS; CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS; GANGLIONIC BLOCKERS; and VASODILATOR AGENTS.
16,16-dimethylprostaglandin e2	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
antacid	Various agents with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate PEPTIC ULCER or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract. This has included ANTIBIOTICS to treat HELICOBACTER INFECTIONS; HISTAMINE H2 ANTAGONISTS to reduce GASTRIC ACID secretion; and ANTACIDS for symptomatic relief.
16,16 dimethyl pge2	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
antiulcer agent	Various agents with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate PEPTIC ULCER or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract. This has included ANTIBIOTICS to treat HELICOBACTER INFECTIONS; HISTAMINE H2 ANTAGONISTS to reduce GASTRIC ACID secretion; and ANTACIDS for symptomatic relief.
dmpge2	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
anti-ulcer agents	Various agents with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate PEPTIC ULCER or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract. This has included ANTIBIOTICS to treat HELICOBACTER INFECTIONS; HISTAMINE H2 ANTAGONISTS to reduce GASTRIC ACID secretion; and ANTACIDS for symptomatic relief.
prosta-5,13-dien-1-oic acid, 11,15-dihydroxy-16,16-dimethyl-9-oxo-, (5z,11alpha,13e,15r)-	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
anti-ulcer drugs	Various agents with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate PEPTIC ULCER or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract. This has included ANTIBIOTICS to treat HELICOBACTER INFECTIONS; HISTAMINE H2 ANTAGONISTS to reduce GASTRIC ACID secretion; and ANTACIDS for symptomatic relief.
dimethylpge2	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
prostaglandin analogue	Compounds obtained by chemical synthesis that are analogs or derivatives of naturally occurring prostaglandins and that have similar activity.
fda established names and unique ingredient identifier codes terminology	The terminology that includes terms pertaining to FDA/USP Substance Registration System (SRS), which is to support health information technology initiatives by generating unique ingredient identifiers (UNIIs) for substances in drugs, biologics, foods, and devices.
clinical trials reporting program terminology	Terminology that is used to support NCI's Clinical Trials Reporting Program (CTRP), a database that captures the required reporting data for all NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
dimethylprostaglandin e 02 16 16	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
clinical trials reporting program agent terminology	A subset of terminology about pharmacologic substances and formulations that are currently being used or tested in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer, cancer-related conditions and chemo/radiotherapy-related side effects.
nci drug dictionary terminology	Terminology created to support the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Drug Dictionary.
antiulcer drugs	Various agents with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate PEPTIC ULCER or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract. This has included ANTIBIOTICS to treat HELICOBACTER INFECTIONS; HISTAMINE H2 ANTAGONISTS to reduce GASTRIC ACID secretion; and ANTACIDS for symptomatic relief.
e2, 16,16-dimethylprostaglandin	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
antiulcer drug	Various agents with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate PEPTIC ULCER or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract. This has included ANTIBIOTICS to treat HELICOBACTER INFECTIONS; HISTAMINE H2 ANTAGONISTS to reduce GASTRIC ACID secretion; and ANTACIDS for symptomatic relief.
16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin e2	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
16, 16-dimethyl prostaglandin e2	A synthetic prostaglandin E analog that protects the gastric mucosa, prevents ulceration, and promotes the healing of peptic ulcers. The protective effect is independent of acid inhibition. It is also a potent inhibitor of pancreatic function and growth of experimental tumors.
17-ketogenic steroids, nos	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
glucocorticoids	A group of CORTICOSTEROIDS that affect carbohydrate metabolism (GLUCONEOGENESIS, liver glycogen deposition, elevation of BLOOD SUGAR), inhibit ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE secretion, and possess pronounced anti-inflammatory activity. They also play a role in fat and protein metabolism, maintenance of arterial blood pressure, alteration of the connective tissue response to injury, reduction in the number of circulating lymphocytes, and functioning of the central nervous system.
17-hydroxycorticosteroids	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
20-hydroxyprogesterone	20-alfa-hydroxipregn-4-en-3-on. Ett naturligt förekommande progesteronderivat med progestogen effekt.
17 hydroxycorticoids	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
5beta-pregnane-3alpha,17alpha,20alpha-triol	A metabolite of 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPROGESTERONE, normally produced in small quantities by the GONADS and the ADRENAL GLANDS, found in URINE. An elevated urinary pregnanetriol is associated with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA with a deficiency of STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE.
17-hydroxycorticosteroid	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
17-hydroxyprogesterone, (17 alpha)-isomer	Ett hydroxyprogesteron med ungefär samma medicinska användning som progesteron.
17-hydrocorticosteroid	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
5-pregnen-3beta,17alpha-diol-20-one	An endogenous steroid hormone synthesized by the hydroxylation of pregnenolone, which can act either as a neuroactive steroid or as a prohormone for progestogens, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, estrogens, and the neuroactive steroids.
17-hydroxycorticosteroid -retired-	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
20-hydroxyprogesterone (substance)	20-alfa-hydroxipregn-4-en-3-on. Ett naturligt förekommande progesteronderivat med progestogen effekt.
17-hydroxycorticoid	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
5-beta-pregnane-3,17,20-triol	A metabolite of 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPROGESTERONE, normally produced in small quantities by the GONADS and the ADRENAL GLANDS, found in URINE. An elevated urinary pregnanetriol is associated with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA with a deficiency of STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE.
17-hydroxyprogesterone	Ett hydroxyprogesteron med ungefär samma medicinska användning som progesteron.
17-alpha-hydroxypregnenolone	An endogenous steroid hormone synthesized by the hydroxylation of pregnenolone, which can act either as a neuroactive steroid or as a prohormone for progestogens, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, estrogens, and the neuroactive steroids.
cortisone	A naturally occurring glucocorticoid that has been used in replacement therapy for ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY and as an anti-inflammatory agent. Cortisone itself is inactive; it is converted in the liver to the active metabolite HYDROCORTISONE. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p726)
17-hydroxycorticosteroid (substance)	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
s compound	17,21-Dihydroxypregn-4-ene-3,20-dione. A 17-hydroxycorticosteroid with glucocorticoid and anti-inflammatory activities.
17-oxogenic steroid	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
epitestosterone	The 17-alpha isomer of TESTOSTERONE, derived from PREGNENOLONE via the delta5-steroid pathway, and via 5-androstene-3-beta,17-alpha-diol. Epitestosterone acts as an antiandrogen in various target tissues. The ratio between testosterone/epitestosterone is used to monitor anabolic drug abuse.
17 hydroxycorticosteroid	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
11beta-hydrocortisone	The main glucocorticoid secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX. Its synthetic counterpart is used, either as an injection or topically, in the treatment of inflammation, allergy, collagen diseases, asthma, adrenocortical deficiency, shock, and some neoplastic conditions.
hydrocortisone	The main glucocorticoid secreted by the ADRENAL CORTEX. Its synthetic counterpart is used, either as an injection or topically, in the treatment of inflammation, allergy, collagen diseases, asthma, adrenocortical deficiency, shock, and some neoplastic conditions.
17 hydroxycorticosteroids	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
pregnanetriol	A metabolite of 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPROGESTERONE, normally produced in small quantities by the GONADS and the ADRENAL GLANDS, found in URINE. An elevated urinary pregnanetriol is associated with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA with a deficiency of STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE.
hydroxyprogesterone	Ett hydroxyprogesteron med ungefär samma medicinska användning som progesteron.
cortisone acetate	The acetate ester of cortisone that is used mainly for replacement therapy in adrenocortical insufficiency and in the treatment of many allergic and inflammatory disorders.
hydrocortisone probutate	The probutate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leads to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
17-ketogenic steroids	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
hydrocortisone acetate	The synthetic acetate ester form of hydrocortisone, a corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Hydrocortisone acetate initially binds to the cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptor; then the receptor-ligand complex is translocated to the nucleus where it initiates the transcription of genes encoding for anti-inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes.
hydrocortisone valerate	The valerate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leads to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
hydrocortisone butyrate	The butyrate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leading to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
17-hydroxypregnenolone	An endogenous steroid hormone synthesized by the hydroxylation of pregnenolone, which can act either as a neuroactive steroid or as a prohormone for progestogens, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, estrogens, and the neuroactive steroids.
hydrocortisone sodium succinate	The sodium salt of hydrocortisone succinate with glucocorticoid property. Hydrocortisone sodium succinate is chemically similar to the endogenous hormone that stimulates anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive activities, in addition to exhibiting minor mineralocorticoid effects. This agent binds to intracellular glucocorticoid receptors and is translocated into the nucleus, where it initiates the transcription of glucocorticoid-responsive genes, such as various cytokines and lipocortins. Lipocortins inhibit phospholipase A2, thereby blocking the release of arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and preventing the synthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes, both potent mediators of inflammation. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1819" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1819" NCI Thesaurus)
cortexolone	17,21-Dihydroxypregn-4-ene-3,20-dione. A 17-hydroxycorticosteroid with glucocorticoid and anti-inflammatory activities.
17-ketogenic steroid (substance)	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
17-ketogenic steroid	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione, 17-hydroxy-	Ett hydroxyprogesteron med ungefär samma medicinska användning som progesteron.
compound e preparation	The acetate ester of cortisone that is used mainly for replacement therapy in adrenocortical insufficiency and in the treatment of many allergic and inflammatory disorders.
hydrocortisone probutate (medication)	The probutate salt form of hydrocortisone, a synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist with antiinflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive effects. Binding and activation of the glucocorticoid receptor results in the activation of lipocortin that in turn inhibits cytosolic phospholipase A2. Lack of phospholipase A2 prevents the release of arachidonic acid, precursor for inflammatory mediator prostaglandins and leukotrienes, from the cell membrane. Secondly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 1 is induced, thereby leads to dephosphorylation and inactivation of Jun N-terminal kinase directly inhibiting c-Jun mediated transcription. Finally, transcriptional activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is blocked, thereby inhibits the transcription of cyclooxygenase 2, which is essential for prostaglandin production.
hydroxycorticosteroids a 17	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
hydroxypregnenolone	An endogenous steroid hormone synthesized by the hydroxylation of pregnenolone, which can act either as a neuroactive steroid or as a prohormone for progestogens, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, estrogens, and the neuroactive steroids.
17kgs - 17-ketogenic steroids	A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position. Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function. They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
glucocorticoid hormones	A group of CORTICOSTEROIDS that affect carbohydrate metabolism (GLUCONEOGENESIS, liver glycogen deposition, elevation of BLOOD SUGAR), inhibit ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE secretion, and possess pronounced anti-inflammatory activity. They also play a role in fat and protein metabolism, maintenance of arterial blood pressure, alteration of the connective tissue response to injury, reduction in the number of circulating lymphocytes, and functioning of the central nervous system.
dehydrogenases, 17-hydroxysteroid	A class of enzymes that catalyzes the oxidation of 17-hydroxysteroids to 17-ketosteroids. EC 1.1.-.
17-ketosteroid reductase deficiency of testis	Decreased activity of the steroidogenic enzyme, 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, associated with mutation(s) in the HSD17B3 gene, leading to reduced testosterone production.
17-ketosteroids	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
product containing steroid	A group of polycyclic compounds closely related biochemically to TERPENES. They include cholesterol, numerous hormones, precursors of certain vitamins, bile acids, alcohols (STEROLS), and certain natural drugs and poisons. Steroids have a common nucleus, a fused, reduced 17-carbon atom ring system, cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene. Most steroids also have two methyl groups and an aliphatic side-chain attached to the nucleus. (From Hawley's Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 11th ed)
drug	Any substance, other than food, that is used to prevent, diagnose, treat or relieve symptoms of a disease or abnormal condition. Also refers to a substance that alters mood or body function, or that can be habit-forming or addictive, especially a narcotic.
17-oxosteroid	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
estrone	An aromatized C18 steroid with a 3-hydroxyl group and a 17-ketone, a major mammalian estrogen. It is converted from ANDROSTENEDIONE directly, or from TESTOSTERONE via ESTRADIOL. In humans, it is produced primarily by the cyclic ovaries, PLACENTA, and the ADIPOSE TISSUE of men and postmenopausal women.
2-hydroxyestrone	A metabolite formed during the catabolism of estrone by the liver through the hydroxylation of the carbon at position 2 by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, including CYP1A1 and 1A2, with potential anticarcinogenic activity. The mechanism of action for the antitumor activity of 2-hydroxyestrone is not known but this metabolic product has minimal estrogenic activity compared to the parent compound and other estrone metabolites. Additionally, O-methylation of this compound produces 2-methoxyestradiol (2-MeOE2), which is a potent inhibitor of both cell proliferation and angiogenesis.
17-ketosteroid (substance)	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
formestane-containing product	A synthetic steroidal substance with antineoplastic activity. Formestane binds irreversibly to and inhibits the enzyme aromatase, thereby blocking the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and the peripheral aromatization of androgenic precursors into estrogens. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C974" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C974" NCI Thesaurus)
estra-1,3,5 (10)-triene-17-one-3-yl-sulfate	An aqueous substance that is the sulfate salt form of estrone. (NCI)
17 oxosteroids	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
piperazine estrone sulfate (substance)	A natural estrogenic substance composed of estrone sulfate and piperazine. Estropipate diffuses through the cell membrane and binds to and subsequently activates the nuclear estrogen receptor found in the reproductive tract, breast, pituitary, hypothalamus, liver, and bone. The activated complex binds to the estrogen response element on the DNA and activates the transcription of genes involved in the functioning of the female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics.
17-ketosteroid	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
phosphate de polyestradiol	A synthetic long-acting polymer derivative of the female sex hormone estradiol. As the primary, most potent estrogen hormone produced by the ovaries, estradiol binds to and activates specific nuclear receptors. Estradiol exhibits mild anabolic and metabolic properties, and increases blood coagulability. Administration of polyestradiol phosphate leads to the marked decrease of testosterone levels and may exhibit a bone mass-preserving effect in patients with prostatic cancer. (NCI04)
oxosteroids 17	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
trilostano	A synthetic derivative of androstane with adrenocortical suppressive properties. Trilostane reversibly inhibits 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase delta 5-4 isomerase in the adrenal cortex, resulting in the decreased synthesis of mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids and the decreased conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1263" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1263" NCI Thesaurus)
17-ketosteroids, nos	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
16alpha-ohe	A metabolite formed during the catabolism of estrone by the liver through the hydroxylation of the carbon at position 16 by cytochrome P450 (CYP) family enzymes, including CYP3A4 and 3A5, with potential carcinogenic activity. With increased estrogenic activity compared to the parent compound, 16alpha-hydroxyestrone (16alpha-OHE1) increases the expression of ER-responsive genes, which leads to increased proliferation of susceptible tumor cells. The ratio between the two estrogen metabolites, 2-hydroxyestrone (2-OHE1), a weak estrogen and metabolite from the 2-hydroxylation pathway, and 16alpha-OHE1, a metabolite from the 16-hydroxylation pathway, may be used to assess the risk of certain cancers; a higher ratio of 2-OHE1:16alpha-OHE1 correlates with decreased cancer risk.
examestane	A synthetic androgen analogue. Exemestane binds irreversibly to and inhibits the enzyme aromatase, thereby blocking the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and the peripheral aromatization of androgenic precursors into estrogens. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1097" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1097" NCI Thesaurus)
(7α,17β)-7-{9-[(4,4,5,5,5-pentafluoropentyl)sulfinyl]nonyl}estra-1(10),2,4-triene-3,17-diol	An estradiol derivative and estrogen receptor antagonist that is used for the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
4-hydroxyandrostenedione	A synthetic steroidal substance with antineoplastic activity. Formestane binds irreversibly to and inhibits the enzyme aromatase, thereby blocking the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and the peripheral aromatization of androgenic precursors into estrogens. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C974" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C974" NCI Thesaurus)
estrone 3-sulfate	An aqueous substance that is the sulfate salt form of estrone. (NCI)
17-oxosteroids	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
estra-1,3,5(10)-triene-3,17 diol (17-beta)-, polymer with phosporic acid	A synthetic long-acting polymer derivative of the female sex hormone estradiol. As the primary, most potent estrogen hormone produced by the ovaries, estradiol binds to and activates specific nuclear receptors. Estradiol exhibits mild anabolic and metabolic properties, and increases blood coagulability. Administration of polyestradiol phosphate leads to the marked decrease of testosterone levels and may exhibit a bone mass-preserving effect in patients with prostatic cancer. (NCI04)
trilostane (product)	A synthetic derivative of androstane with adrenocortical suppressive properties. Trilostane reversibly inhibits 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase delta 5-4 isomerase in the adrenal cortex, resulting in the decreased synthesis of mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids and the decreased conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1263" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1263" NCI Thesaurus)
16-alpha hydroxyestrone	A metabolite formed during the catabolism of estrone by the liver through the hydroxylation of the carbon at position 16 by cytochrome P450 (CYP) family enzymes, including CYP3A4 and 3A5, with potential carcinogenic activity. With increased estrogenic activity compared to the parent compound, 16alpha-hydroxyestrone (16alpha-OHE1) increases the expression of ER-responsive genes, which leads to increased proliferation of susceptible tumor cells. The ratio between the two estrogen metabolites, 2-hydroxyestrone (2-OHE1), a weak estrogen and metabolite from the 2-hydroxylation pathway, and 16alpha-OHE1, a metabolite from the 16-hydroxylation pathway, may be used to assess the risk of certain cancers; a higher ratio of 2-OHE1:16alpha-OHE1 correlates with decreased cancer risk.
exemestane	A synthetic androgen analogue. Exemestane binds irreversibly to and inhibits the enzyme aromatase, thereby blocking the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and the peripheral aromatization of androgenic precursors into estrogens. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1097" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1097" NCI Thesaurus)
17-oxosteroids (substance)	Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
fulvestrant	An estradiol derivative and estrogen receptor antagonist that is used for the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
2,5 oligoadenylate polymerase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of ATP into a series of (2'-5') linked oligoadenylates and pyrophosphate in the presence of double-stranded RNA. These oligonucleotides activate an endoribonuclease (RNase L) which cleaves single-stranded RNA. Interferons can act as inducers of these reactions.
2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: ATP = pppA(2'p5'A)n oligomers. This reaction requires the binding of double-stranded RNA. [ISBN:0198506732]
2,2-bipyridyl	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
chelating agent-containing product	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
2,2 bipyridine	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
indicators and reagents	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
2,2'-dipyridyl	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
chelator	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
reagent/indicator	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
chelating agents	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
2,2-bipyridine	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
indicators reagents	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
2,2 dipyridyl	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
chelators	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
alpha,alpha-dipyridyl	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
2,2'-bipyridine	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
agent chelates	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
alpha,alpha dipyridyl	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
bipyridine 02 02	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
metal chelating agent	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
reagents and indicators	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
agents, chelating	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
dipyridyl, 2,2	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
chelating agent	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
2,2 bipyridyl	A reagent used for the determination of iron.
reagents indicators	Substances used for the detection, identification, analysis, etc. of chemical, biological, or pathologic processes or conditions. Indicators are substances that change in physical appearance, e.g., color, at or approaching the endpoint of a chemical titration, e.g., on the passage between acidity and alkalinity. Reagents are substances used for the detection or determination of another substance by chemical or microscopical means, especially analysis. Types of reagents are precipitants, solvents, oxidizers, reducers, fluxes, and colorimetric reagents. (From Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed, p301, p499)
substance with chelating agent mechanism of action (substance)	Chemicals that bind to and remove ions from solutions. Many chelating agents function through the formation of COORDINATION COMPLEXES with METALS.
2,4,5-trichloroacetophenol	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid -retired-	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
herbicide, nos	Pesticides used to destroy unwanted vegetation, especially various types of weeds, grasses (POACEAE), and woody plants. Some plants develop HERBICIDE RESISTANCE.
acetic acid, (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)-	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
2,4,5-t	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (substance)	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
trichlorophenoxyacetic acid 020405	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)acetic acid, butyl ester, mixt. with butyl (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)acetate	a highly toxic herbicide
carboxylic acid	Organic compounds containing the carboxy group (-COOH). This group of compounds includes amino acids and fatty acids. Carboxylic acids can be saturated, unsaturated, or aromatic.
trichlorophenoxyacetic acid	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
agent orange	a highly toxic herbicide
t a 02 04 05	An herbicide with strong irritant properties. Use of this compound on rice fields, orchards, sugarcane, rangeland, and other noncrop sites was terminated by the EPA in 1985. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
carboxylic acid, nos	Organic compounds containing the carboxy group (-COOH). This group of compounds includes amino acids and fatty acids. Carboxylic acids can be saturated, unsaturated, or aromatic.
2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (substance)	An herbicide with irritant effects on the eye and the gastrointestinal system.
2,4-d	An herbicide with irritant effects on the eye and the gastrointestinal system.
acetic acid, (2,4-dichlorophenoxy)-	An herbicide with irritant effects on the eye and the gastrointestinal system.
2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid	An herbicide with irritant effects on the eye and the gastrointestinal system.
2,4-d - 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid	An herbicide with irritant effects on the eye and the gastrointestinal system.
orange, agent	a highly toxic herbicide
2,4-d - 2,4,5-t mixture	a highly toxic herbicide
dichloroindophenol, 2,6	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
indophenol, dichlorophenol	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
2,5-cyclohexadien-1-one, 2,6-dichloro-4-((4-hydroxyphenyl)imino)-	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
2,6-dichlorobenzenoneindophenol dye	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
2,6 dichlorophenolindophenol	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
2,6-dichloroindophenol	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
dichlorophenol indophenol	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
dye, 2,6-dichlorobenzenoneindophenol	A dye used as a reagent in the determination of vitamin C.
acid reductoisomerase, acetohydroxy	An enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine. It converts 2-acetolactate into 3-hydroxy-2-oxo-isovalerate. Also acts on 2-hydroxy-2-acetobutyrate to form 2-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-methylvalerate. EC 5.4.99.3.
biocatalysts	Biological molecules that possess catalytic activity. They may occur naturally or be synthetically created. Enzymes are usually proteins, however CATALYTIC RNA and CATALYTIC DNA molecules have also been identified.
2 acetolactate mutase	An enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine. It converts 2-acetolactate into 3-hydroxy-2-oxo-isovalerate. Also acts on 2-hydroxy-2-acetobutyrate to form 2-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-methylvalerate. EC 5.4.99.3.
ec 5	A class of enzymes that catalyze geometric or structural changes within a molecule to form a single product. The reactions do not involve a net change in the concentrations of compounds other than the substrate and the product.(from Dorland, 28th ed) EC 5.
2-acetolactate mutase (substance)	An enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine. It converts 2-acetolactate into 3-hydroxy-2-oxo-isovalerate. Also acts on 2-hydroxy-2-acetobutyrate to form 2-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-methylvalerate. EC 5.4.99.3.
mutase	Enzymes of the isomerase class that catalyze the transfer of acyl-, phospho-, amino- or other groups from one position within a molecule to another. EC 5.4.
enzyme	Biological molecules that possess catalytic activity. They may occur naturally or be synthetically created. Enzymes are usually proteins, however CATALYTIC RNA and CATALYTIC DNA molecules have also been identified.
2 acetohydroxy 3 ketoacid isomeroreductase	An enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine. It converts 2-acetolactate into 3-hydroxy-2-oxo-isovalerate. Also acts on 2-hydroxy-2-acetobutyrate to form 2-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-methylvalerate. EC 5.4.99.3.
substance with isomerase mechanism of action (substance)	A class of enzymes that catalyze geometric or structural changes within a molecule to form a single product. The reactions do not involve a net change in the concentrations of compounds other than the substrate and the product.(from Dorland, 28th ed) EC 5.
isomeroreductase, 2-acetohydroxy-3-ketoacid	An enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of isoleucine and valine. It converts 2-acetolactate into 3-hydroxy-2-oxo-isovalerate. Also acts on 2-hydroxy-2-acetobutyrate to form 2-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-methylvalerate. EC 5.4.99.3.
transferases, intramolecular	Enzymes of the isomerase class that catalyze the transfer of acyl-, phospho-, amino- or other groups from one position within a molecule to another. EC 5.4.
2-fluorenylacetamide	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
oncogen	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
2 acetylaminofluorene	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
acetylaminofluorene	hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the arylhydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide; used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
n-2-fluorenylacetamide	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
aaf, aminofluorene	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
n 2 fluorenylacetamide	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
n-9h-fluoren-2-ylacetamide	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
2-acetylaminofluorene	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
2-acetamidofluorene (substance)	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
n-acetyl-2-aminofluorene	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
2 fluorenylacetamide	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
organo-nitrogen carcinogen	An organic carcinogen having a C-N bond incorporated in its structure. (NCI05)
2-aaf	A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide. It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
fda unii code terminology	The terminology that includes terms pertaining to FDA/USP Substance Registration System (SRS), which is to support health information technology initiatives by generating unique ingredient identifiers (UNIIs) for substances in drugs, biologics, foods, and devices.
carcinogen, nos	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
carcinogenic chemical, nos	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
5 phosphononorvaline	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
glutamate antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
5-phosphononorvaline	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
excitatory amino acid antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
aminophosphonopentanoic acid 0205	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
glutamate receptor antagonist product	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
aminophosphonovaleric acid 0205	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
glutamate receptor antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
2 amino 5 phosphonovaleric acid	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
glutamate antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
glutamate receptor antagonist-containing product	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
antagonist, glutamate receptor	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
glutamate recept antag	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
antagonists, glutamate	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid	The D-enantiomer is a potent and specific antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE). The L form is inactive at NMDA receptors but may affect the AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate; APB) excitatory amino acid receptors.
substance with glutamate receptor antagonist mechanism of action (substance)	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
glutamate antag	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
2-aminoadipic acid	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
antagonists, excitatory amino acid	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
aminoadipic acid 02	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
glutamate receptor antagonist (product)	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
2-aminohexanedioic acid	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
amino acids, excitatory, antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
aminoadipic acid, 2	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
antagonists, glutamate receptor	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
glutamate receptor antagonist	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
acid, 2-aminohexanedioic	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
eaa antagonists	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
alpha-aminoadipic acid	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
amino acid derivative (product)	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
ctrp terminology	Terminology that is used to support NCI's Clinical Trials Reporting Program (CTRP), a database that captures the required reporting data for all NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
ctrp biomarker terminology	A set of terms that is comprised of the biomarkers referenced in NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
acid, alpha-aminoadipic	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
aa	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
product containing glutamate receptor antagonist (product)	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
hexanedioic acid, 2-amino-	A metabolite in the principal biochemical pathway of lysine. It antagonizes neuroexcitatory activity modulated by the glutamate receptor, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE; (NMDA).
receptor antagonists, glutamate	Drugs that bind to but do not activate excitatory amino acid receptors, thereby blocking the actions of agonists.
aminopurine 02	A purine that is an isomer of ADENINE (6-aminopurine).
product containing antimetabolite	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
aminopurine	A purine that is an isomer of ADENINE (6-aminopurine).
9h-purine-2,6-diamine	One of a number of organic compounds that share a similar purine structure and possess antiviral and antitumor properties. 2,6-Diaminopurine nucleosides are versatile synthetic precursors for specific N-6 modifications of antiviral and antitumor agents. (NCI04)
tropomysin receptor kinase inhibitor azd7451	A tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK) inhibitor with potential antineoplastic activity. AZD7451 binds to TRK, thereby preventing the neurotrophin-TRK interaction and subsequent TRK activation. This may eventually result in an inhibition of tumor cell proliferation in TRK-expressing tumor cells. TRK, a receptor tyrosine kinase activated by neurotrophins, is mutated in a variety of cancer cell types and plays an important role in tumor cell growth, invasion and survival.
2-aminopurine	A purine that is an isomer of ADENINE (6-aminopurine).
antimetabolite	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
antimetabolite-containing product	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
antimetabolite (substance)	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
antimetabolites	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
1h-purin-2-amine	A purine that is an isomer of ADENINE (6-aminopurine).
2 aminopurine	A purine that is an isomer of ADENINE (6-aminopurine).
antimetabolites (medication)	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
chloroadenosine 02	2-Chloroadenosine. A metabolically stable analog of adenosine which acts as an adenosine receptor agonist. The compound has a potent effect on the peripheral and central nervous system.
8-chloroadenosine	An antimetabolite and a chlorine derivative of the purine nucleoside adenosine, with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon administration, 8-chloro-adenosine is phosphorylated to form 8-chloro-adenosine triphosphate (8-chloro-ATP), which functions as a ribonucleoside analogue and competes with ATP during transcription. Therefore, this agent causes RNA synthesis inhibition, inhibits cellular proliferation, and induces apoptosis.
koshlands reagent i	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
koshland reagent	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
phenol, 2-(bromomethyl)-4-nitro-	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
reagent, koshlands	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
reagent, koshland	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
2 hydroxy 5 nitrobenzyl bromide	A chemical reagent that reacts with and modifies chemically the tryptophan portion of protein molecules. Used for 'active site' enzyme studies and other protein studies. Sometimes referred to as Koshland's reagent.
2 hydroxyphenethylamine	Simple amine found in the brain. It may be modulator of sympathetic functions. Its derivatives are adrenergic agonists and antagonists. It is also used in chemical industry.
at13148	An orally available, small molecule inhibitor of AGC group kinases, with potential antineoplastic activity. AT13148 inhibits, in an ATP-competitive manner, the enzymatic activity of two AGC kinases, protein kinase B (PKB or AKT) and p70S6K which play key roles in the PI3K/PKB/mTOR signaling pathway. Blockade of this pathway leads to an inhibition of cell growth and the induction of apoptosis in susceptible tumor cells. PI3K/PKB/mTOR pathway is dysregulated in greater than 50% of tumors, and is often correlated with resistance and increased tumor survival. AGC group kinases are serine/threonine kinases that are regulated by secondary messengers such as cyclic AMP and lipids.
alpha isopropylmalate synthase	An enzyme that catalyzes the first step in the biosynthetic pathway to LEUCINE, forming isopropyl malate from acetyl-CoA and alpha-ketoisovaleric acid. This enzyme was formerly listed as EC 4.1.3.12.
enzymes	Biological molecules that possess catalytic activity. They may occur naturally or be synthetically created. Enzymes are usually proteins, however CATALYTIC RNA and CATALYTIC DNA molecules have also been identified.
ec 4	A class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of C-C, C-O, and C-N, and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 4.
2-isopropylmalate synthase	An enzyme that catalyzes the first step in the biosynthetic pathway to LEUCINE, forming isopropyl malate from acetyl-CoA and alpha-ketoisovaleric acid. This enzyme was formerly listed as EC 4.1.3.12.
2-isopropylmalate synthase (substance)	An enzyme that catalyzes the first step in the biosynthetic pathway to LEUCINE, forming isopropyl malate from acetyl-CoA and alpha-ketoisovaleric acid. This enzyme was formerly listed as EC 4.1.3.12.
substance with lyase mechanism of action (substance)	A class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of C-C, C-O, and C-N, and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992) EC 4.
sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulphonate	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
agents, protective	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
mesna	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
maid protocol	A regimen consisting of doxorubicin, ifosfamide, dacarbazine and mesna used to treat unresectable soft tissue sarcoma.
product containing mesna	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
tic regimen	A regimen consisting of paclitaxel, ifosfamide, mesna and carboplatin used as salvage therapy for the treatment of advanced-stage testicular cancer; also used for the treatment of unresectable and recurrent squamous cell head and neck cancer.
protective drug, nos	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
drug, protective	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
protectants	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
mesnum	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
protective agent	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
mucolytic agent (substance)	Any agent that dissolves mucus, making it less thick and sticky. This makes it easier for the mucus to drain from the upper respiratory system, be removed through coughing, or be transported through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.
antidote	Agents counteracting or neutralizing the action of POISONS.
antidote agent	Agents counteracting or neutralizing the action of POISONS.
pharmaceutical preparations	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
ethanesulfonic acid, 2-mercapto-, monosodium salt	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
cytoprotective drugs	Agents administered before, with, or after cancer therapy to reduce or prevent damage or toxicity to the normal cells. (NCI)
cytoprotectants	Agents administered before, with, or after cancer therapy to reduce or prevent damage or toxicity to the normal cells. (NCI)
cytoprotective agent (product)	Agents administered before, with, or after cancer therapy to reduce or prevent damage or toxicity to the normal cells. (NCI)
antidote (substance)	Agents counteracting or neutralizing the action of POISONS.
medication	Drugs intended for human or veterinary use, presented in their finished dosage form. Included here are materials used in the preparation and/or formulation of the finished dosage form.
cytoprotective agent (substance)	Agents administered before, with, or after cancer therapy to reduce or prevent damage or toxicity to the normal cells. (NCI)
cystitis	Inflammation of the URINARY BLADDER, either from bacterial or non-bacterial causes. Cystitis is usually associated with painful urination (dysuria), increased frequency, urgency, and suprapubic pain.
2-mercaptoethanesulfonate, sodium salt	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
cystitis nos	Inflammation of the URINARY BLADDER, either from bacterial or non-bacterial causes. Cystitis is usually associated with painful urination (dysuria), increased frequency, urgency, and suprapubic pain.
drug hypersensitivity	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
drug intoxication	An adverse effect of a drug used therapeutically or diagnostically.
bleeding	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
blood loss	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
iff/mesna/vp-16	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of etoposide, ifosfamide and mesna that may be used in the treatment of breast cancer and recurrent sarcomas.
protectant	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
uroprotectants	Agents administered before, with, or after cancer therapy to reduce or prevent damage or toxicity to the urinary tract. (NCI)
mesna (medication)	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
mesna-adriamycin-ifosfamide-dtic regimen	A regimen consisting of doxorubicin, ifosfamide, dacarbazine and mesna used to treat unresectable soft tissue sarcoma.
mine regimen	A regimen consisting of mesna, ifosfamide, mitoxantrone and etoposide used to treat relapsed or refractory Hodgkin and Non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
iff/msa/vp-16	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of etoposide, ifosfamide and mesna that may be used in the treatment of breast cancer and recurrent sarcomas.
mesna (product)	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
paclitaxel/ifosfamide/cisplatin	A regimen consisting of paclitaxel, ifosfamide, mesna and cisplatin used for the treatment of advanced-stage testicular cancer; also used for the treatment of unresectable and recurrent squamous cell head and neck cancer.
dacarbazine/mesna	A combination of agents containing dacarbazine and mesna.
aim regimen	A regimen consisting of doxorubicin, ifosfamide and methotrexate used for the treatment of unresectable soft tissue sarcoma.
calgb 9251 regimen	A regimen comprised of a prephase (or cytoreductive phase), followed by two different chemotherapy regimens, given on an alternating schedule and used to treat adult L3 acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL3 or Burkitt's-type) and adult small non-cleaved cell (Burkitt's) lymphoma.
codox-m/ivac	A regimen that alternates cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin and high-dose methotrexate (CODOX-M) with ifosfamide, etoposide and high-dose cytarabine (IVAC), and can be used in the treatment of Burkitt lymphoma and Burkitt-like lymphoma.
rituximab-ifosfamide-carboplatin-etoposide regimen	A chemoimmunotherapy regimen consisting of rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin and etoposide that can be used to treat indolent and aggressive forms of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL); also used to treat relapsed and refractory NHL.
sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
veip regimen	An abbreviation for a chemotherapy combination used to treat ovarian and testicular germ cell cancers that have spread. It includes the drugs vinblastine sulfate (Velban), ifosfamide (Ifex), cisplatin (Platinol), and mesna.
ctrp agent terminology	A subset of terminology about pharmacologic substances and formulations that are currently being used or tested in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer, cancer-related conditions and chemo/radiotherapy-related side effects.
genomics data commons terminology	Terminology that supports the Genomic Data Commons (GDC).
cisplatin/ifosfamide/mesna	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of cisplatin, ifosfamide, and mesna that may be used in the treatment of ovarian cancer.
mesna (substance)	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
ifosfamide-mesna-paclitaxel	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of ifosfamide, mesna and paclitaxel that can be used in the treatment of uterine, ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.
fluorouracil/ifosfamide/methotrexate	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of ifosfamide, mesna, methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil that may be used in the treatment of breast cancer.
mesna/ifosfamide/novantrone/etoposide/etoposide/solumedrol/ara-c/platinol	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of mesna, ifosfamide, mitoxantrone and etoposide (MINE) alternated with etoposide, methylprednisolone, high-dose cytarabine, and cisplatin (ESHAP) that may be used in the treatment of Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphomas.
national cancer institute drug dictionary	Terminology created to support the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Drug Dictionary.
mesna product	A sulfhydryl compound used to prevent urothelial toxicity by inactivating metabolites from ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, such as IFOSFAMIDE or CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE.
protective agent (substance)	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
protective agents	Synthetic or natural substances which are given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent.
beta-naphthylamine	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
carcinogens chemical	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
2 naphthylamine	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
n-(6-(3-tert-butyl-5-(2,4-dioxo-3,4-dihydropyrimidin-1(2h)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)naphthalen-2-yl)methanesulfonamide	A non-nucleoside inhibitor of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) non-structural protein 5B (NS5B), an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, with potential activity against HCV. Upon administration and after intracellular uptake, dasabuvir binds HCV NS5B polymerase and blocks viral RNA synthesis and replication. The HCV NS5B protein is essential for the replication of the HCV RNA genome. HCV is a small, enveloped, single-stranded RNA virus belonging to the Flaviviridae family; HCV infection is associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
2-naphthalenamine	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
carcinogenic aromatic amine	Potentially cancer-causing compound containing amine with an aromatic ring substituted for one or more of its hydrogen atoms, i.e., -NH2, -NH- or nitrogen group(s) attached to an aromatic hydrocarbon, whose structure usually contains one or more benzene rings. This group includes many industrial and tobacco carcinogens. (NCI05)
b- naphthylamine	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
clinical proteomic tumor analysis consortium terminology	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC).
cptac baseline medical forms terminology	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on obtaining data for baseline medical forms.
cptac environmental/occupational exposure codelist	Terminology used to support the collection of patient environmental and occupational hazardous exposure data by CPTAC.
cptac codelists terminology	Terminology used to support the various lists of data useful for tracking trends by CPTAC.
cptac medical history form	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on Medical History Form data.
fast scarlet base b	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
2-naphthylamine (substance)	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
beta naphthylamine	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
naphthylamine 01	A suspected industrial carcinogen (and listed as such by OSHA). Its N-hydroxy metabolite is strongly carcinogenic and mutagenic.
naphthylamine 02	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
2-aminonaphthalene	A naphthalene derivative with carcinogenic action.
20-methylcholanthrene	A polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon that consists of five fused rings with carcinogenic activity. 20-Methylcholanthrene is often used in experimental cancer studies.
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons	Aromatic hydrocarbons that contain extended fused-ring structures.
24,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
vitamin	Organic substances that are required in small amounts for maintenance and growth, but which cannot be manufactured by the human body.
24,25-hydroxy vitamin d3	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
bone density conservation agents	Medel som hämmar benvävnadsresorption och/eller gynnar benmineralisering och benbildning. De används för läkning av frakturer och för att behandla metaboliska benvävssjukdomar.
24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
calcium-regulating hormones and agents	Hormones and molecules with calcium-regulating hormone-like actions that modulate OSTEOLYSIS and other extra-skeletal activities to maintain calcium homeostasis.
24,25(oh)2 d3	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d 3	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
calcium regulating hormones and agents	Hormones and molecules with calcium-regulating hormone-like actions that modulate OSTEOLYSIS and other extra-skeletal activities to maintain calcium homeostasis.
vitamins	Organic substances that are required in small amounts for maintenance and growth, but which cannot be manufactured by the human body.
24,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 (substance)	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
(3beta,5z,7e)-9,10-secocholesta-5,7,10(19)-triene-3,24,25-triol	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
calciotropic hormone	A vitamin that includes both CHOLECALCIFEROLS and ERGOCALCIFEROLS, which have the common effect of preventing or curing RICKETS in animals. It can also be viewed as a hormone since it can be formed in SKIN by action of ULTRAVIOLET RAYS upon the precursors, 7-dehydrocholesterol and ERGOSTEROL, and acts on VITAMIN D RECEPTORS to regulate CALCIUM in opposition to PARATHYROID HORMONE.
24,25-diohccc - 24,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
oleovitamin d preparation	A vitamin that includes both CHOLECALCIFEROLS and ERGOCALCIFEROLS, which have the common effect of preventing or curing RICKETS in animals. It can also be viewed as a hormone since it can be formed in SKIN by action of ULTRAVIOLET RAYS upon the precursors, 7-dehydrocholesterol and ERGOSTEROL, and acts on VITAMIN D RECEPTORS to regulate CALCIUM in opposition to PARATHYROID HORMONE.
vitamin-d	family of natural and synthetic C(28) sterols with hypercalcemic activity, many of which require metabolic or photo-activation; deficiency causes rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults.
clinical trials reporting program biomarker terminology	A set of terms that is comprised of the biomarkers referenced in NCI-sponsored clinical trials.
9,10-secocholesta-5,7,10(19)-triene-3,24,25-triol, (3-beta,5z,7e)-	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
24,25-dihydroxy cholecalciferol (substance)	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
24,25-dhcc - 24,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
dihydroxyvitamin d3 24 25	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d<sub>3</sub>	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
9,10-secocholesta-5,7,10(19)-triene-3,24,25-triol, (3beta,5z,7e)-	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
24r-dihydroxycalcidiol	A physiologically active metabolite of VITAMIN D. The compound is involved in the regulation of calcium metabolism, alkaline phosphatase activity, and enhancing the calcemic effect of CALCITRIOL.
vitamin (substance)	Organic substances that are required in small amounts for maintenance and growth, but which cannot be manufactured by the human body.
calcidiol 1-monooxygenase	Ett enzym som katalyserar formeringen av 1,25-dihydroxykolekalciferol från 25-hydroxykolekalciferol. Reaktionen kräver syre, magnesium och NAD(P)H. EC 1.14.13.13.
1alpha(oh)ase	25-hydroxyvitamin D-1 alpha hydroxylase, mitochondrial (508 aa, ~57 kDa) is encoded by the human CYP27B1 gene. This protein is involved in vitamin D metabolism.
calcidiol,nadph:oxygen oxidoreductase (1-hydroxylating)	Ett enzym som katalyserar formeringen av 1,25-dihydroxykolekalciferol från 25-hydroxykolekalciferol. Reaktionen kräver syre, magnesium och NAD(P)H. EC 1.14.13.13.
hydroxylase	Widely distributed enzymes that carry out oxidation-reduction reactions in which one atom of the oxygen molecule is incorporated into the organic substrate; the other oxygen atom is reduced and combined with hydrogen ions to form water. They are also known as monooxygenases or hydroxylases. These reactions require two substrates as reductants for each of the two oxygen atoms. There are different classes of monooxygenases depending on the type of hydrogen-providing cosubstrate (COENZYMES) required in the mixed-function oxidation.
25 hydroxyvitamin d3 1 alpha hydroxylase	Ett enzym som katalyserar formeringen av 1,25-dihydroxykolekalciferol från 25-hydroxykolekalciferol. Reaktionen kräver syre, magnesium och NAD(P)H. EC 1.14.13.13.
monooxygenase	Widely distributed enzymes that carry out oxidation-reduction reactions in which one atom of the oxygen molecule is incorporated into the organic substrate; the other oxygen atom is reduced and combined with hydrogen ions to form water. They are also known as monooxygenases or hydroxylases. These reactions require two substrates as reductants for each of the two oxygen atoms. There are different classes of monooxygenases depending on the type of hydrogen-providing cosubstrate (COENZYMES) required in the mixed-function oxidation.
calcidiol monooxygenase 01	Ett enzym som katalyserar formeringen av 1,25-dihydroxykolekalciferol från 25-hydroxykolekalciferol. Reaktionen kräver syre, magnesium och NAD(P)H. EC 1.14.13.13.
25-hydroxyvitamin d3 1alpha-hydroxylase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: calcidiol + H(+) + NADPH + O(2) = calcitriol + H(2)O + NADP(+). [EC:1.14.15.18, RHEA:20573]
9,10-secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3 beta,25-diol	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
25-hydroxyvitamin d 2	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
25-hydroxyvitamin d<sub>2</sub>	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
25-hydroxy ergocalciferol	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
25 hydroxyvitamin d2	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
25-hydroxyvitamin d2	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
9,10-secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol, (3beta,5z,7e,22e)-	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
vitamin preparation (product)	Organic substances that are required in small amounts for maintenance and growth, but which cannot be manufactured by the human body.
25-hydroxyvitamin d>2<	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
25-hydroxy ergocalciferol (substance)	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
25 hydroxycalciferol	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
vitamin preparation, nos	Organic substances that are required in small amounts for maintenance and growth, but which cannot be manufactured by the human body.
25 hydroxyergocalciferol	9,10-Secoergosta-5,7,10(19),22-tetraene-3,25-diol. Biologically active metabolite of vitamin D2 which is more active in curing rickets than its parent. The compound is believed to attach to the same receptor as vitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
vitamin d	A vitamin that includes both CHOLECALCIFEROLS and ERGOCALCIFEROLS, which have the common effect of preventing or curing RICKETS in animals. It can also be viewed as a hormone since it can be formed in SKIN by action of ULTRAVIOLET RAYS upon the precursors, 7-dehydrocholesterol and ERGOSTEROL, and acts on VITAMIN D RECEPTORS to regulate CALCIUM in opposition to PARATHYROID HORMONE.
25-hydroxyvitamin d2 measurement	The determination of the amount of 25-hydroxyvitamin D2 present in a sample.
3',5'-cyclic-nucleotide 5'-nucleotidohydrolase	Enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of CYCLIC AMP to form adenosine 5'-phosphate. The enzymes are widely distributed in animal tissue and control the level of intracellular cyclic AMP. Many specific enzymes classified under this heading demonstrate additional spcificity for 3',5'-cyclic IMP and CYCLIC GMP.
homo sapiens phosphodiesterase pde9a2	High affinity cGMP-specific 3',5'-cyclic phosphodiesterase 9A (593 aa, ~68 kDa) is encoded by the human PDE9A gene. This protein plays a role in the conversion of cyclic nucleotide monophosphates to non-cyclic monophosphates.
phosphodiesterase, 3',5'-cyclic amp	Enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of CYCLIC AMP to form adenosine 5'-phosphate. The enzymes are widely distributed in animal tissue and control the level of intracellular cyclic AMP. Many specific enzymes classified under this heading demonstrate additional spcificity for 3',5'-cyclic IMP and CYCLIC GMP.
pde8b protein, human	High affinity cAMP-specific and IBMX-insensitive 3',5'-cyclic phosphodiesterase 8B (885 aa, ~99 kDa) is encoded by the human PDE8B gene. This protein plays a role in cyclic AMP catabolism.
cycl amp phosphodiesterase	Enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of CYCLIC AMP to form adenosine 5'-phosphate. The enzymes are widely distributed in animal tissue and control the level of intracellular cyclic AMP. Many specific enzymes classified under this heading demonstrate additional spcificity for 3',5'-cyclic IMP and CYCLIC GMP.
product containing hydrolase (product)	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the substrate and the addition of water to the resulting molecules, e.g., ESTERASES, glycosidases (GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES), lipases, NUCLEOTIDASES, peptidases (PEPTIDE HYDROLASES), and phosphatases (PHOSPHORIC MONOESTER HYDROLASES). EC 3.
3',5' cyclic amp 5' nucleotidohydrolase	Enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of CYCLIC AMP to form adenosine 5'-phosphate. The enzymes are widely distributed in animal tissue and control the level of intracellular cyclic AMP. Many specific enzymes classified under this heading demonstrate additional spcificity for 3',5'-cyclic IMP and CYCLIC GMP.
hydrolase (substance)	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the substrate and the addition of water to the resulting molecules, e.g., ESTERASES, glycosidases (GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES), lipases, NUCLEOTIDASES, peptidases (PEPTIDE HYDROLASES), and phosphatases (PHOSPHORIC MONOESTER HYDROLASES). EC 3.
cyclic gmp nucleotidohydrolase 03 05 05	Ett enzym som katalyserar hydrolys av cykliskt GMP, vilket ger guanosin-5'-fosfat. EC 3.1.4.35.
hydrolase	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the substrate and the addition of water to the resulting molecules, e.g., ESTERASES, glycosidases (GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES), lipases, NUCLEOTIDASES, peptidases (PEPTIDE HYDROLASES), and phosphatases (PHOSPHORIC MONOESTER HYDROLASES). EC 3.
phosphodiesterases, 3',5'-cyclic-gmp	Ett enzym som katalyserar hydrolys av cykliskt GMP, vilket ger guanosin-5'-fosfat. EC 3.1.4.35.
hydrolases	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the substrate and the addition of water to the resulting molecules, e.g., ESTERASES, glycosidases (GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES), lipases, NUCLEOTIDASES, peptidases (PEPTIDE HYDROLASES), and phosphatases (PHOSPHORIC MONOESTER HYDROLASES). EC 3.
(1,1'-biphenyl)-4,4'-diamine, 3,3'-dichloro-	A material used in the manufacture of azo dyes that is toxic to skin and carcinogenic in several species.
3-3'dichlorobenzidine (substance)	A material used in the manufacture of azo dyes that is toxic to skin and carcinogenic in several species.
3,3 dichlorobenzidine	A material used in the manufacture of azo dyes that is toxic to skin and carcinogenic in several species.
dichlorobenzidine 03 03	A material used in the manufacture of azo dyes that is toxic to skin and carcinogenic in several species.
3,3'-dichlorobenzidine	A material used in the manufacture of azo dyes that is toxic to skin and carcinogenic in several species.
3,3-dichlorobenzidine	A material used in the manufacture of azo dyes that is toxic to skin and carcinogenic in several species.
carcinogenic chemical	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
dopac	A deaminated metabolite of LEVODOPA.
3,4 dihydroxyphenylacetate	metabolite of DOPA.
catecholamine metabolite	Molecules created during the catabolism of catecholamine hormones. Increased concentrations of these metabolic products in plasma and urine may indicate the presence of hormone-producing pheochromocytomas or paragangliomas.
dopac - dihydroxyphenylacetic acid	A deaminated metabolite of LEVODOPA.
catecholamine metabolite (substance)	Molecules created during the catabolism of catecholamine hormones. Increased concentrations of these metabolic products in plasma and urine may indicate the presence of hormone-producing pheochromocytomas or paragangliomas.
droxidopa	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
antiparkinson agents	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
antiparkinsonian agents	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
sympathomimetic agent	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
amino acid derivative	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
3,4-threo-dops	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
sympathomimetics (medication)	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
threo-dops	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
antiparkinsonian	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
agents, antiparkinson	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
l-threo-dihydroxyphenylserine	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
antiparkinsonian agent (product)	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
3,4 threo dops	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
antiparkinsonism drugs (medication)	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
(-)-(2s,3r)-2-amino-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3-hydroxypropanoic acid	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
vasoconstrictor	Drugs used to cause constriction of the blood vessels.
antiparkinson drugs	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
droxidopa (medication)	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
aa - amino acid	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
sympathomimetics	Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves. Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
threo dops	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
product containing amino acid (product)	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
l-threo 3,4 dihydroxyphenylserine	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
product containing amino acid derivative (product)	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
product containing catecholamine (product)	A general class of ortho-dihydroxyphenylalkylamines derived from TYROSINE.
central drugs nervous system	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
droxidopa product	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
drug hypersensitivity nos	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
orthostatic hypotension	A significant drop in BLOOD PRESSURE after assuming a standing position. Orthostatic hypotension is a finding, and defined as a 20-mm Hg decrease in systolic pressure or a 10-mm Hg decrease in diastolic pressure 3 minutes after the person has risen from supine to standing. Symptoms generally include DIZZINESS, blurred vision, and SYNCOPE.
dl threo 3,4 dihydroxyphenylserine	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
antiparkinson agent	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
l-tyrosine, beta,3-dihydroxy-, threo-	A synthetic precursor of norepinephrine that is used in the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION.
agents, antiparkinsonian	Agents used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The most commonly used drugs act on the dopaminergic system in the striatum and basal ganglia or are centrally acting muscarinic antagonists.
1,3-benzodioxole-5-ethanamine, alpha-methyl-	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
hallucinogen	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
methylenedioxyamphetamine	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
serotonin drugs	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
adrenergic uptake inhibitor	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
mda	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
n-ethyl mda	a kind of hallucinogenic drug
alpha-methyl-1,3-benzodioxole-5-ethanamine	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
3-methoxy-4,5-methylenedioxyamphetamine (mmda)	a kind of hallucinogenic drug
methylenedioxyamphetamine 03 04	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
agent, psychotomimetic	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
serotonin agents	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
tenamfetaminum	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
hallucinogens	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
inhibitors, adrenergic uptake	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
substances, hallucinogenic	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
drug serotonin	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
psychedelic agents	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
tenamfetamine	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
adren uptake inhib	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
cns stimulants	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
methylenedioxyamphetamine (substance)	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
psychedelic	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
serotonergic drugs	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
inhib adren reuptake	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
psychotomimetic drugs	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
drugs, serotonergic	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
beta-aminopropylbenzene	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
amphetamine group	Analogs or derivatives of AMPHETAMINE. Many are sympathomimetics and central nervous system stimulators causing excitation, vasopressin, bronchodilation, and to varying degrees, anorexia, analepsis, nasal decongestion, and some smooth muscle relaxation.
substituted amphetamine-containing product	Class of chemicals that are analogs or derivatives of 1-phenylpropan-2-amine, including synthetic and naturally occurring amphetamines.
amphetamine (product)	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
amphetamine	A powerful central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic. Amphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulation of release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase. Amphetamine is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic. The l- and the d,l-forms are included here. The l-form has less central nervous system activity but stronger cardiovascular effects. The d-form is DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
substituted amphetamine product	Class of chemicals that are analogs or derivatives of 1-phenylpropan-2-amine, including synthetic and naturally occurring amphetamines.
hallucinogenic drug	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
3,4 methylenedioxyamphetamine	An amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters. It is a hallucinogen. It is less toxic than its methylated derivative but in sufficient doses may still destroy serotonergic neurons and has been used for that purpose experimentally.
substance with adrenergic uptake inhibitor mechanism of action (substance)	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
serotonergic agents	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
adrenergic uptake inhibitors	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
hallucinogenic agent (substance)	Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking. Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
drugs, serotonin	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
reuptake inhibitors, adrenergic	Drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals. The tricyclic antidepressants (ANTIDEPRESSIVE AGENTS, TRICYCLIC) and amphetamines are among the therapeutically important drugs that may act via inhibition of adrenergic transport. Many of these drugs also block transport of serotonin.
agents, serotonergic	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
beta alanine	An amino acid formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine. Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been demonstrated, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. A rare genetic disorder, hyper-beta-alaninemia, has been reported.
benfuracarb	The carbamate agent benfuracarb.
netarsudil	An amino-isoquinoline amide and inhibitor of Rho kinase (ROCK) and norepinephrine transporter (NET), with potential intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering activity. Upon ocular administration, netarsudil inhibits ROCK and the Rho pathway, increases aqueous humor (AH) outflow via the trabecular pathway, and lowers IOP. In addition, netarsudil may lower IOP by decreasing episcleral venous pressure and decreasing the production of aqueous humor through inhibition of NET.
beta-alanine	An amino acid formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine. Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been demonstrated, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. A rare genetic disorder, hyper-beta-alaninemia, has been reported.
amino acids nos	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
.beta.-alanine	An amino acid formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine. Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been demonstrated, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. A rare genetic disorder, hyper-beta-alaninemia, has been reported.
amino acids, source unspecified	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
3-aminopropionic acid	An amino acid formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine. Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been demonstrated, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID. A rare genetic disorder, hyper-beta-alaninemia, has been reported.
beta-alanine measurement	The determination of the amount of beta alanine present in a sample.
2-aminopropionic acid	A non-essential amino acid that occurs in high levels in its free state in plasma. It is produced from pyruvate by transamination. It is involved in sugar and acid metabolism, increases IMMUNITY, and provides energy for muscle tissue, BRAIN, and the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
beta-alanine measurement (procedure)	The determination of the amount of beta alanine present in a sample.
l-alanine	A non-essential amino acid that occurs in high levels in its free state in plasma. It is produced from pyruvate by transamination. It is involved in sugar and acid metabolism, increases IMMUNITY, and provides energy for muscle tissue, BRAIN, and the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
beta-alanine test	The determination of the amount of beta alanine present in a sample.
amino acids	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
nutritional and metabolic diseases	A collective term for nutritional disorders resulting from poor absorption or nutritional imbalance, and metabolic disorders resulting from defects in biosynthesis (ANABOLISM) or breakdown (CATABOLISM) of endogenous substances.
dau	4-Hydroxy-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-pyridinone. Analog of uridine lacking a ring-nitrogen in the 3-position. Functions as an antineoplastic agent.
antineopl antimetab	Antimetabolites that are useful in cancer chemotherapy.
4-hydroxy-1-(beta-d-ribopentofuranosyl)-2-pyridone	4-Hydroxy-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-pyridinone. Analog of uridine lacking a ring-nitrogen in the 3-position. Functions as an antineoplastic agent.
antimetabolites, antineoplastic	Antimetabolites that are useful in cancer chemotherapy.
antineoplastics,antimetabolites	Antimetabolites that are useful in cancer chemotherapy.
3-deazauridine	4-Hydroxy-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-pyridinone. Analog of uridine lacking a ring-nitrogen in the 3-position. Functions as an antineoplastic agent.
deazauridine	4-Hydroxy-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-pyridinone. Analog of uridine lacking a ring-nitrogen in the 3-position. Functions as an antineoplastic agent.
antineoplastic antimetabolites	Antimetabolites that are useful in cancer chemotherapy.
pyrimidine antagonist	synthetic or natural chemical compounds which resemble pyrimidine in structure and/or function.
cts inhibitors	Any substance that inhibits cytidine triphosphate synthetase, an enzyme that catalyses the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of CTP. Inhibition of cytidine triphosphate synthetase interferes with DNA, RNA, and CTP biosynthesis and can cause cell cycle arrest.
deazauridine 03	4-Hydroxy-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-pyridinone. Analog of uridine lacking a ring-nitrogen in the 3-position. Functions as an antineoplastic agent.
3 deazauridine	4-Hydroxy-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-2-pyridinone. Analog of uridine lacking a ring-nitrogen in the 3-position. Functions as an antineoplastic agent.
hydroxymethylglutaric acid 03 03	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
anticholesteremics	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
enzyme inhibitor	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
antihyperlipemics	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
meglutol	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
product containing 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a reductase inhibitor (product)	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
acid, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
enzyme inhib	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
antilipemic agent	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric acid	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
hmg-coa reductase inhibitor product	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
inhibitors, cholesterol	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
substance with enzyme inhibitor mechanism of action (substance)	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
drug lipid lowering	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
hydroxymethylglutaryl coa reductase inhibitor	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
cholesterol inhibitors	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
3 hydroxy 3 methylpentanedioic acid	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
antilipemic agent, nos	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
acid, 3-hydroxy-3-methylpentanedioic	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a (hmg-coa) reductase inhibitor (substance)	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
cholesterol-lowering drug	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
enzyme inhibitor (product)	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
drug, hypolipidemic	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
hydroxymethylglutaryl coa reductase inhibitors	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
pentanedioic acid, 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
anticholesteremic agents	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaric acid	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
substance with enzyme inhibitor mechanism of action	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutarate	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
antilipemic drugs	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
hmg-coa reductase inhibitor	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
anticholesteremic drugs	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
enzyme inhibitor (substance)	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
antilipemic agents	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
anti-lipidemic agent	An agent that reduces plasma lipids, such as cholesterol or low density lipoproteins (LDL), acting systemically or locally (intestines) to decrease fat digestion, absorption, production, and accumulation in the plasma and reducing pathogenic atherosclerosis and thrombosis.
beta hydroxy beta methylglutarate	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
cholesterol lowering drugs	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a reductase inhibitor (substance)	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
inhibitor, enzyme	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
3-hydroxy-3-methylpentanedioic acid	An antilipemic agent which lowers cholesterol, triglycerides, serum beta-lipoproteins and phospholipids. It acts by interfering with the enzymatic steps involved in the conversion of acetate to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A as well as inhibiting the activity of HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES which is the rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of cholesterol.
medicinal product acting as antilipemic agent (product)	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
cholesterol inhib	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
product containing enzyme inhibitor (product)	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
agents, hypolipidemic	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase inhibitor	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
hypolipidemic drug	agent that promotes a reduction of lipoprotein levels in the blood.
hmg-coa reductase inhibitor, nos	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
cholesterol-lowering drug (product)	Substances used to lower plasma CHOLESTEROL levels.
enzyme inhibitor-containing product	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
inhibitors, hmg coa reductase	Compounds that inhibit HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL COA REDUCTASES. They have been shown to directly lower CHOLESTEROL synthesis.
beta-hydroxyacyl dehydrogenases	Enzymes that reversibly catalyze the oxidation of a 3-hydroxyacyl CoA to 3-ketoacyl CoA in the presence of NAD. They are key enzymes in the oxidation of fatty acids and in mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis.
acetoacetyl coenzyme a reductase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: (R)-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA + NADP+ = 3-oxoacyl-CoA + NADPH + H+. [EC:1.1.1.36]
3-hydroxyanthranilic acid	An oxidation product of tryptophan metabolism. It may be a free radical scavenger and a carcinogen.
free radical scavengers	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
free radical scavenger	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
scavengers, free radical	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
3 hydroxyanthranilic acid	An oxidation product of tryptophan metabolism. It may be a free radical scavenger and a carcinogen.
acid, 3-hydroxyanthranilic	An oxidation product of tryptophan metabolism. It may be a free radical scavenger and a carcinogen.
scavenger, free radical	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
radical scavenger, free	Substances that eliminate free radicals. Among other effects, they protect PANCREATIC ISLETS against damage by CYTOKINES and prevent myocardial and pulmonary REPERFUSION INJURY.
hydroxyanthranilic acid 03	An oxidation product of tryptophan metabolism. It may be a free radical scavenger and a carcinogen.
benzoic acid, 2-amino-3-hydroxy-	An oxidation product of tryptophan metabolism. It may be a free radical scavenger and a carcinogen.
3 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases	Catalyze the oxidation of 3-hydroxysteroids to 3-ketosteroids.
steroid dehydrogenase deficiency dental anomalies	An autosomal recessive liver disease, which was associated with numerical dental aberrations in a consanguineous Arabia Saudi family. This association suggests that the same gene is involved in both defects. General hypomineralisation and enamel hypoplasia found in this family is thought to be secondary to malabsorption due to liver disease.
mercaptopropanoic acid 03	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
convulsant	Substances that act in the brain stem or spinal cord to produce tonic or clonic convulsions, often by removing normal inhibitory tone. They were formerly used to stimulate respiration or as antidotes to barbiturate overdose. They are now most commonly used as experimental tools.
acid, 3-mercaptopropionic	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
acid, 3-mercaptopropanoic	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
agents, gabaergic	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
rentiapril	A potent angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor with antihypertensive activity. Rentiapril competitively binds to and inhibits ACE, thereby blocking the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II. This prevents the potent vasoconstrictive actions of angiotensin II and results in vasodilation. Rentiapril also decreases angiotensin II-induced aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex, which leads to an increase in sodium excretion and subsequently increases water outflow.
mercaptopropionic acid 03	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
convulsants	Substances that act in the brain stem or spinal cord to produce tonic or clonic convulsions, often by removing normal inhibitory tone. They were formerly used to stimulate respiration or as antidotes to barbiturate overdose. They are now most commonly used as experimental tools.
gabaergic agent	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
enzyme inhibitors	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
3-mercaptopropanoic acid	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
acid agents, gamma-aminobutyric	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
inhibitors, enzyme	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
gaba agents	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
propanoic acid, 3-mercapto-	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
3 mercaptopropionic acid	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
gabaergic agents	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
enzyme inhibitor product	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
3-mercaptopropionic acid	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
agent, gabaergic	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
gamma aminobutyric acid agents	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
3 mercaptopropanoic acid	An inhibitor of glutamate decarboxylase. It decreases the GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID concentration in the brain, thereby causing convulsions.
agents, gamma-aminobutyric acid	Substances used for their pharmacological actions on GABAergic systems. GABAergic agents include agonists, antagonists, degradation or uptake inhibitors, depleters, precursors, and modulators of receptor function.
enzymes inhibitors	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
synthase, 3-keto-acp	An enzyme of long-chain fatty acid synthesis, that adds a two-carbon unit from malonyl-(acyl carrier protein) to another molecule of fatty acyl-(acyl carrier protein), giving a beta-ketoacyl-(acyl carrier protein) with the release of carbon dioxide. EC 2.3.1.41.
3-oxoacyl-[acyl-carrier protein] synthase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: acyl-[acyl-carrier protein] + malonyl-[acyl-carrier protein] = 3-oxoacyl-[acyl-carrier protein] + CO2 + [acyl-carrier protein]. [EC:2.3.1.41]
vitamin b x	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
sulfamethoxazole	A bacteriostatic antibacterial agent that interferes with folic acid synthesis in susceptible bacteria. Its broad spectrum of activity has been limited by the development of resistance. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p208)
p-carboxyaniline	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
5-(p-aminobenzenesulfonamido)-3,4-dimethylisoxazole	A short-acting sulfonamide antibacterial with activity against a wide range of gram- negative and gram-positive organisms.
aminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
sulfisoxazole diolamine	A short-acting sulfonamide antibacterial agent with broad spectrum activity against both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria.
sulfisoxazole acetyl (substance)	An ester of sulfisoxazole, a broad-spectrum sulfanilamide and a synthetic analog of para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) with antibacterial property. Sulfisoxazole acetyl competes with PABA for the bacterial enzyme dihydropteroate synthase, thereby preventing the incorporation of PABA into dihydrofolic acid, the immediate precursor of folic acid. This leads to an inhibition of bacterial folic acid synthesis and de novo synthesis of purines and pyrimidines, ultimately resulting in cell growth arrest and cell death.
4-aminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
para-aminobenzoates	member of the vitamin B complex although not an essential nutrient for humans; formerly a common sunscreen agent until found to also be a sensitizer; potassium salt is used therapeutically in fibrotic skin disorders.
vitamin, other	Organic substances belonging to diverse chemical families and present in foods in minute amounts, Vitamins are essential to normal metabolism and biochemical functions, usually as coenzymes. Vitamins can be classified by solubility: lipo-soluble (vitamins A, D, E, K, F) and water-soluble (B- complex). Lack of one or more vitamins in the diet cause metabolic deficiency diseases. (NCI04)
paraaminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
aminobenzoate potassium	The potassium salt form of aminobenzoate, with anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic activities. Aminobenzoate potassium increases oxygen uptake at the tissue level and may enhance monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, which requires oxygen as a substrate. Enhanced MAO activity maybe accountable for the prevention or regression of fibrosis, which may occur due to too much serotonin or too little MAO activity. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1736" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1736" NCI Thesaurus)
para-aminobenzoic acid	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
vitamin b	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
para-aminobenzoic acid (paba)	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
salicylate (product)	The salts or esters of salicylic acids, or salicylate esters of an organic acid. Some of these have analgesic, antipyretic, and anti-inflammatory activities by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis.
sunscreen	Chemical or physical agents that protect the skin from sunburn and erythema by absorbing or blocking ultraviolet radiation.
sunscreens	Chemical or physical agents that protect the skin from sunburn and erythema by absorbing or blocking ultraviolet radiation.
aminobenzoic acid p	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
vitamin b complex	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
aminobenzoic acid (substance)	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
amino acid derivative-containing product	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
sunscreen agent (substance)	Chemical or physical agents that protect the skin from sunburn and erythema by absorbing or blocking ultraviolet radiation.
aminobenzoic acid (usp)	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
vitamin b complex preparation (product)	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
amino acid derivative product	Any derivatives of amino acids that containing amino (-NH2) and carboxyl (-COOH) groups.
n-(2,3-xylyl)-2-aminobenzoic acid	A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent with analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties. It is an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase.
para-aminobenzoic acid (substance)	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
mefenamic acid	A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent with analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties. It is an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase.
allergic drug reaction	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
paba	An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
photosensitivity disorders	Abnormal responses to sunlight or artificial light due to extreme reactivity of light-absorbing molecules in tissues. It refers almost exclusively to skin photosensitivity, including sunburn, reactions due to repeated prolonged exposure in the absence of photosensitizing factors, and reactions requiring photosensitizing factors such as photosensitizing agents and certain diseases. With restricted reference to skin tissue, it does not include photosensitivity of the eye to light, as in photophobia or photosensitive epilepsy.
sunburn	An injury to the skin causing erythema, tenderness, and sometimes blistering and resulting from excessive exposure to the sun. The reaction is produced by the ultraviolet radiation in sunlight.
vitamin b (substance)	A group of water-soluble vitamins, some of which are COENZYMES.
para aminobenzoate	member of the vitamin B complex although not an essential nutrient for humans; formerly a common sunscreen agent until found to also be a sensitizer; potassium salt is used therapeutically in fibrotic skin disorders.
4-ap	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
potassium channel blocker	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
4-aminopyridine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
cct245737	An orally bioavailable inhibitor of checkpoint kinase 1 (chk1), with potential antineoplastic and chemosensitization activities. Upon oral administration, chk1 inhibitor CCT245737 selectively binds to chk1, thereby preventing chk1 activity and abrogating the repair of damaged DNA. This may lead to an accumulation of damaged DNA, inhibition of cell cycle arrest, and induction of apoptosis. CCT245737 may potentiate the cytotoxicity of DNA-damaging agents and reverse tumor cell resistance to chemotherapeutic agents. Chk1, an adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent serine/threonine kinase overexpressed in a variety of cancer cell types, mediates cell cycle checkpoint control and is essential for DNA repair; it plays a key role in resistance to chemotherapeutic agents by repairing DNA damage.
p-aminopyridine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
potassium channel antagonist (substance)	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
pymadine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
potassium channel antagonist	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
4-pyridinamine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
potassium channel blockers	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
fampridine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
potassium channel antagonist (product)	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
dalfampridine	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
central nervous system drugs	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
multiple sclerosis	An autoimmune disorder mainly affecting young adults and characterized by destruction of myelin in the central nervous system. Pathologic findings include multiple sharply demarcated areas of demyelination throughout the white matter of the central nervous system. Clinical manifestations include visual loss, extra-ocular movement disorders, paresthesias, loss of sensation, weakness, dysarthria, spasticity, ataxia, and bladder dysfunction. The usual pattern is one of recurrent attacks followed by partial recovery (see MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS, RELAPSING-REMITTING), but acute fulminating and chronic progressive forms (see MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS, CHRONIC PROGRESSIVE) also occur. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p903)
seizure	Clinical or subclinical disturbances of cortical function due to a sudden, abnormal, excessive, and disorganized discharge of brain cells. Clinical manifestations include abnormal motor, sensory and psychic phenomena. Recurrent seizures are usually referred to as EPILEPSY or "seizure disorder."
fampridine-containing product	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
gait disorders, neurologic	Gait abnormalities that are a manifestation of nervous system dysfunction. These conditions may be caused by a wide variety of disorders which affect motor control, sensory feedback, and muscle strength including: CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES; PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISEASES; NEUROMUSCULAR DISEASES; or MUSCULAR DISEASES.
insufficiency renal	Stavy snížené funkce ledvin, kdy se zhoršuje jejich schopnost filtrace, koncentrace moči, udržování elektrolytové rovnováhy, krevního tlaku a metabolismu vápníku. Renální insuficience se může klasifikovat podle stupně poškození ledvin (proteinurie) a podle snížení glomerulární filtrace.
cation channel blocker	A group of agents that block the influx or efflux of positively charged ions through cell membrane.
central stimulant	A loosely defined group of drugs that tend to increase behavioral alertness, agitation, or excitation. They work by a variety of mechanisms, but usually not by direct excitation of neurons. The many drugs that have such actions as side effects to their main therapeutic use are not included here.
dalfampridine-containing product	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
insect repellent (substance)	Substances causing insects to turn away from them or reject them as food.
pesticide product (substance)	Chemicals used to destroy pests of any sort. The concept includes fungicides (FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL); INSECTICIDES; RODENTICIDES; etc.
potassium channel blocker product	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
product containing fampridine (medicinal product)	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
product containing potassium channel blocker (product)	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
4-aminopyridine-containing product	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
blockers, potassium channel	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
4-aminopyridine product	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
insect repellent	Substances causing insects to turn away from them or reject them as food.
pesticides	Chemicals used to destroy pests of any sort. The concept includes fungicides (FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL); INSECTICIDES; RODENTICIDES; etc.
aminopyridine 04	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
fampridine (substance)	One of the POTASSIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS with secondary effect on calcium currents which is used mainly as a research tool and to characterize channel subtypes.
product containing potassium channel blocker	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
blocker, potassium channel	En grupp läkemedel som verkar genom att hämma kaliumflödet genom cellmembraner. Kaliumkanalblockad förlänger verkningspotentialtiden. Kaliumkanalblockerare används som antiarytmimedel och kärlvidgande medel.
1,4-lactone	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
solvents	Liquids that dissolve other substances (solutes), generally solids, without any change in chemical composition, as, water containing sugar. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
gamma-butyrolactone	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
gamma butyrolactone	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
solvent, nos	Liquids that dissolve other substances (solutes), generally solids, without any change in chemical composition, as, water containing sugar. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
butyrolactone 04	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
hydroxybutyric acid lactone 04	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
solvent (substance)	Liquids that dissolve other substances (solutes), generally solids, without any change in chemical composition, as, water containing sugar. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
γ-butyrolactone	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
lactones	Cyclic esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids, containing a 1-oxacycloalkan-2-one structure. Large cyclic lactones of over a dozen atoms are MACROLIDES.
4-butyrolactone	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
solvent	Liquids that dissolve other substances (solutes), generally solids, without any change in chemical composition, as, water containing sugar. (Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
furanone, tetrahydro 2	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
4-hydroxybutyric acid lactone	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
furanone, tetrahydro-2-	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
gbl	One of the FURANS with a carbonyl thereby forming a cyclic lactone. It is an endogenous compound made from gamma-aminobutyrate and is the precursor of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It is also used as a pharmacological agent and solvent.
4-quinolinamine, n-hydroxy-, 1-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. It is a reduction product of 4-NITROQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE. It binds with nucleic acids and inactivates both bacteria and bacteriophage.
4-hydroxyaminoquinoline-1-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. It is a reduction product of 4-NITROQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE. It binds with nucleic acids and inactivates both bacteria and bacteriophage.
mutagen	Chemical agents that increase the rate of genetic mutation by interfering with the function of nucleic acids. A clastogen is a specific mutagen that causes breaks in chromosomes.
mutagens	Chemical agents that increase the rate of genetic mutation by interfering with the function of nucleic acids. A clastogen is a specific mutagen that causes breaks in chromosomes.
4 hydroxyaminoquinoline 1 oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. It is a reduction product of 4-NITROQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE. It binds with nucleic acids and inactivates both bacteria and bacteriophage.
4-hydroxyaminoquinoline-n-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. It is a reduction product of 4-NITROQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE. It binds with nucleic acids and inactivates both bacteria and bacteriophage.
hydroxyaminoquinoline a oxide 04 01	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. It is a reduction product of 4-NITROQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE. It binds with nucleic acids and inactivates both bacteria and bacteriophage.
4 hydroxyaminoquinoline n oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. It is a reduction product of 4-NITROQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE. It binds with nucleic acids and inactivates both bacteria and bacteriophage.
hydroxyaminoquinoline n oxide 04	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. It is a reduction product of 4-NITROQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE. It binds with nucleic acids and inactivates both bacteria and bacteriophage.
4 hydroxybenzoate 3 monooxygenase	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
monooxygenase (substance)	Widely distributed enzymes that carry out oxidation-reduction reactions in which one atom of the oxygen molecule is incorporated into the organic substrate; the other oxygen atom is reduced and combined with hydrogen ions to form water. They are also known as monooxygenases or hydroxylases. These reactions require two substrates as reductants for each of the two oxygen atoms. There are different classes of monooxygenases depending on the type of hydrogen-providing cosubstrate (COENZYMES) required in the mixed-function oxidation.
4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase (substance)	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
mixed function oxygenase	Widely distributed enzymes that carry out oxidation-reduction reactions in which one atom of the oxygen molecule is incorporated into the organic substrate; the other oxygen atom is reduced and combined with hydrogen ions to form water. They are also known as monooxygenases or hydroxylases. These reactions require two substrates as reductants for each of the two oxygen atoms. There are different classes of monooxygenases depending on the type of hydrogen-providing cosubstrate (COENZYMES) required in the mixed-function oxidation.
4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
4-hydroxybenzoate,nadph:oxygen oxidoreductase (3-hydroxylating)	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
dehydrogenase -retired-	The class of all enzymes catalyzing oxidoreduction reactions. The substrate that is oxidized is regarded as a hydrogen donor. The systematic name is based on donor:acceptor oxidoreductase. The recommended name will be dehydrogenase, wherever this is possible; as an alternative, reductase can be used. Oxidase is only used in cases where O2 is the acceptor. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992, p9)
4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase (reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate)	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
mixed function oxygenases	Widely distributed enzymes that carry out oxidation-reduction reactions in which one atom of the oxygen molecule is incorporated into the organic substrate; the other oxygen atom is reduced and combined with hydrogen ions to form water. They are also known as monooxygenases or hydroxylases. These reactions require two substrates as reductants for each of the two oxygen atoms. There are different classes of monooxygenases depending on the type of hydrogen-providing cosubstrate (COENZYMES) required in the mixed-function oxidation.
dehydrogenase	The class of all enzymes catalyzing oxidoreduction reactions. The substrate that is oxidized is regarded as a hydrogen donor. The systematic name is based on donor:acceptor oxidoreductase. The recommended name will be dehydrogenase, wherever this is possible; as an alternative, reductase can be used. Oxidase is only used in cases where O2 is the acceptor. (Enzyme Nomenclature, 1992, p9)
para-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
3-hydroxybenzoate 4-hydroxylase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: 3-hydroxybenzoate + H(+) + NADPH + O(2) = 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate + H(2)O + NADP(+). [EC:1.14.13.23, RHEA:11480]
para-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: 4-hydroxybenzoate + NADPH + H+ + O2 = protocatechuate + NADP+ + H2O. [EC:1.14.13.2]
hydroxylase, para-hydroxybenzoate	A flavoprotein that catalyzes the synthesis of protocatechuic acid from 4-hydroxybenzoate in the presence of molecular oxygen. EC 1.14.13.2.
4-hydroxybenzoate 3-monooxygenase [nad(p)h] activity	Catalysis of the reaction: 4-hydroxybenzoate + NAD(P)H + H+ + O2 = 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate + NAD(P)+ + H2O. [EC:1.14.13.33]
gamma-hydroxybutyrate	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
sodium oxybate (product)	The sodium salt of 4-hydroxybutyric acid. It is used for both induction and maintenance of ANESTHESIA.
4-hydroxybutyrate (substance)	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
4-hydroxybutyrate sodium	The sodium salt of 4-hydroxybutyric acid. It is used for both induction and maintenance of ANESTHESIA.
gamma-hydroxybutyrate (substance)	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
4-hydroxybutanoic acid	A naturally occurring short-chain fatty acid, and immediate precursor of gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) with neuromodulatory and anesthetic properties. 4-Hydroxybutyric Acid (GHB) is found in all human tissues, with the highest concentration in the brain. This agent stimulates the GHB receptor, and to a lesser extent GABA-B receptors. Although, the precise function and metabolic pathways of GHB are not fully understood, this agent easily crosses the blood-brain barrier, and affects the activities and levels of dopamine, acetylcholine, dynorphin and serotonin. The primary effect of GHB is central nervous system depression, thereby, its main usage is to induce anesthesia.
4-hydroxybutyrate	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
intravenous anaesthetic	Ultrashort-acting anesthetics that are used for induction. Loss of consciousness is rapid and induction is pleasant, but there is no muscle relaxation and reflexes frequently are not reduced adequately. Repeated administration results in accumulation and prolongs the recovery time. Since these agents have little if any analgesic activity, they are seldom used alone except in brief minor procedures. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p174)
ghb	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
sodium oxybate	The sodium salt of 4-hydroxybutyric acid. It is used for both induction and maintenance of ANESTHESIA.
gamma-hydroxybutyric acid	A naturally occurring short-chain fatty acid, and immediate precursor of gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) with neuromodulatory and anesthetic properties. 4-Hydroxybutyric Acid (GHB) is found in all human tissues, with the highest concentration in the brain. This agent stimulates the GHB receptor, and to a lesser extent GABA-B receptors. Although, the precise function and metabolic pathways of GHB are not fully understood, this agent easily crosses the blood-brain barrier, and affects the activities and levels of dopamine, acetylcholine, dynorphin and serotonin. The primary effect of GHB is central nervous system depression, thereby, its main usage is to induce anesthesia.
gamma hydroxybutyrate	hydroxy derivative of butyric acid substituted at the gamma, or 4 position; intermediate in the metabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
alcoholic beverage intake (observable entity)	Behaviors associated with the ingesting of ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, including social drinking.
barbiturate	A class of chemicals derived from barbituric acid or thiobarbituric acid. Many of these are GABA MODULATORS used as HYPNOTICS AND SEDATIVES, as ANESTHETICS, or as ANTICONVULSANTS.
cataplexy	A condition characterized by transient weakness or paralysis of somatic musculature triggered by an emotional stimulus or physical exertion. Cataplexy is frequently associated with NARCOLEPSY. During a cataplectic attack, there is a marked reduction in muscle tone similar to the normal physiologic hypotonia that accompanies rapid eye movement sleep (SLEEP, REM). (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p396)
cns agents	A class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms. They can be divided into "specific" agents, e.g., affecting an identifiable molecular mechanism unique to target cells bearing receptors for that agent, and "nonspecific" agents, those producing effects on different target cells and acting by diverse molecular mechanisms. Those with nonspecific mechanisms are generally further classed according to whether they produce behavioral depression or stimulation. Those with specific mechanisms are classed by locus of action or specific therapeutic use. (From Gilman AG, et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p252)
oxybate, sodium	The sodium salt of 4-hydroxybutyric acid. It is used for both induction and maintenance of ANESTHESIA.
anesthetics, intravenous	Ultrashort-acting anesthetics that are used for induction. Loss of consciousness is rapid and induction is pleasant, but there is no muscle relaxation and reflexes frequently are not reduced adequately. Repeated administration results in accumulation and prolongs the recovery time. Since these agents have little if any analgesic activity, they are seldom used alone except in brief minor procedures. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p174)
4-hydroxycoumarins	Substances found in many plants, containing the 4-hydroxycoumarin radical. They interfere with vitamin K and the blood clotting mechanism, are tightly protein-bound, inhibit mitochondrial and microsomal enzymes, and are used as oral anticoagulants.
anticoagulant drug	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
hydroxycoumarins 04	Substances found in many plants, containing the 4-hydroxycoumarin radical. They interfere with vitamin K and the blood clotting mechanism, are tightly protein-bound, inhibit mitochondrial and microsomal enzymes, and are used as oral anticoagulants.
anticoagulant	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
4 hydroxycoumarins	Substances found in many plants, containing the 4-hydroxycoumarin radical. They interfere with vitamin K and the blood clotting mechanism, are tightly protein-bound, inhibit mitochondrial and microsomal enzymes, and are used as oral anticoagulants.
anticoagulants	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
anticoagulant agent	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
anticoagulants (medication)	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
product containing enzyme inhibitor	Compounds or agents that combine with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate-enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction.
anticoagulant (substance)	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
anticoagulant drugs	Agents that prevent BLOOD CLOTTING.
para hydroxyphenylpyruvate oxidase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate plus oxygen to homogentisic acid and carbon dioxide. EC 1.13.11.27.
oxygenase	Oxidases that specifically introduce DIOXYGEN-derived oxygen atoms into a variety of organic molecules.
4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate plus oxygen to homogentisic acid and carbon dioxide. EC 1.13.11.27.
dioxygenase	Icke hembärande, järnhaltiga enzymer som tillför substratet två syreatomer. Enzymerna är viktiga för biosyntesen av flavonoider, gibberelliner och hyoscyamin, samt för nedbrytningen av aromatiska kolväten. EC 1.14.12.-.
para hydroxyphenylpyruvate hydroxylase	An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate plus oxygen to homogentisic acid and carbon dioxide. EC 1.13.11.27.
p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate + O2 = homogentisate + CO2. [EC:1.13.11.27]
quinoline, 4-nitro-, 1-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
4 nitroquinoline n oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
4 nitroquinoline 1 oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
quinolines	bicyclic aromatic ring structure with one ortho nitrogen.
nitroquinoline a oxide 04 01	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
4-nitroquinoline n-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
nitroquinoline n oxide 04	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
genotoxin	Chemical agents that increase the rate of genetic mutation by interfering with the function of nucleic acids. A clastogen is a specific mutagen that causes breaks in chromosomes.
carcinogen (substance)	Substances that increase the risk of NEOPLASMS in humans or animals. Both genotoxic chemicals, which affect DNA directly, and nongenotoxic chemicals, which induce neoplasms by other mechanism, are included.
heterocyclic cpds	Cyclic compounds that include atoms other than carbon in their ring structure.
4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
4-nitroquinoline-n-oxide	A potent mutagen and carcinogen. This compound and its metabolite 4-HYDROXYAMINOQUINOLINE-1-OXIDE bind to nucleic acids. It inactivates bacteria but not bacteriophage.
genotoxins	Chemical agents that increase the rate of genetic mutation by interfering with the function of nucleic acids. A clastogen is a specific mutagen that causes breaks in chromosomes.
lymphocyte antigen cd73	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
purine 5' nucleotidase	Cytosolic purine 5'-nucleotidase (561 aa, ~65 kDa) is encoded by the human NT5C2 gene. This protein plays a role in the maintenance of intracellular purine pools.
5'-nucleotidase	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
5-nucleotidase	5'-nucleotidase (574 aa, ~63 kDa) is encoded by the human NT5E gene. This protein is involved in the conversion of nucleotides to nucleosides.
protein family	Collection of proteins that are evolutionarily related. This is reflected in the structural and functional similarities as well as in the extent of sequence conservation or residue identity. (from SCOP)
esterase	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of an ester bond and result in the addition of water to the resulting molecules.
uridylate 5'-nucleotidase	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
nt5c2	Cytosolic purine 5'-nucleotidase (561 aa, ~65 kDa) is encoded by the human NT5C2 gene. This protein plays a role in the maintenance of intracellular purine pools.
cluster of differentiation antigen 73	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
5'-nucleotidase phosphoribolase	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
hydrolase-containing product	Any member of the class of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of the substrate and the addition of water to the resulting molecules, e.g., ESTERASES, glycosidases (GLYCOSIDE HYDROLASES), lipases, NUCLEOTIDASES, peptidases (PEPTIDE HYDROLASES), and phosphatases (PHOSPHORIC MONOESTER HYDROLASES). EC 3.
5'-nucleotidase (substance)	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
haematinic	Agents which improve the quality of the blood, increasing the hemoglobin level and the number of erythrocytes. They are used in the treatment of anemias.
pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase	A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water. It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. EC 3.1.3.5.
hematopoietic agents	Agents which improve the quality of the blood, increasing the hemoglobin level and the number of erythrocytes. They are used in the treatment of anemias.
5'-nucleotidase activity	Catalysis of the reaction: a 5'-ribonucleotide + H2O = a ribonucleoside + phosphate. [EC:3.1.3.5]
1h-indole-5,6-diol, 3-(2-aminoethyl)-	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 6. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacologic research.
3-(2-aminoethyl)indole-5,6-diol	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 6. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacologic research.
5,6 dihydroxytryptamine	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 6. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacologic research.
dihydroxytryptamine 05 06	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 6. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacologic research.
agents, serotonin	Drugs used for their effects on serotonergic systems. Among these are drugs that affect serotonin receptors, the life cycle of serotonin, and the survival of serotonergic neurons.
5,7-dihydroxytryptamine	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 7. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacology as a tool.
dihydroxytryptamine 05 07	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 7. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacology as a tool.
1h-indole-5,7-diol, 3-(2-aminoethyl)-	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 7. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacology as a tool.
5,7 dihydroxytryptamine	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 7. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacology as a tool.
3-(2-aminoethyl)-1h-indole-5,7-diol	Tryptamine substituted with two hydroxyl groups in positions 5 and 7. It is a neurotoxic serotonin analog that destroys serotonergic neurons preferentially and is used in neuropharmacology as a tool.
5,8,11,14,17-eicosapentaenoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
omega 3 fatty acids (w3)	A group of unsaturated fatty acids occurring mainly in fish oils, with three double bonds at particular positions in the hydrocarbon chain.
eicosapentaenoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
very long chain fatty acid	A class of dietary fatty acids that have an alkyl chain length above 21 carbon atoms.
eicosapentaenoic acid product	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
ncit antineoplastic agent terminology	A terminology subset in NCI Thesaurus (NCIt) containing any agent that has known or potential antineoplastic activity. The subset includes FDA approved antineoplastic agents, agents that either are or once were in clinical trial (CT) specifically for their antineoplastic activity as well as some additional investigational agents that may have antineoplastic activity. Included in this list are conventional antineoplastic agents, specific tumor-targeting agents, and cancer immunotherapeutics. Excluded from this list are: agents that treat cancer-related conditions; cancer diagnostics or agents used for tumor imaging; agents that treat drug-related adverse effects; any agent that increases an antineoplastic agent's efficacy or pharmacokinetic profile but does not have an antineoplastic effect by itself, including immunoadjuvants that boost efficacy of antineoplastic vaccines; and antineoplastic agents that are conjugated with a radioisotope and are in CT for efficacy and/or ADME studies.
gdc terminology	Terminology that supports the Genomic Data Commons (GDC).
timnodonic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
acid eicosapentaenoic	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
omega-3 fatty acids	A group of unsaturated fatty acids occurring mainly in fish oils, with three double bonds at particular positions in the hydrocarbon chain.
eicosapentaenoic acid 05 08 11 14 17	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
eicosapentanoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
ncit covid-19 terminology	Term sets created by NCI EVS to support collection and sharing of data related to research, testing, clinical observations, prevention, diagnosis and treatment for the severe acute respiratory syndrome 2 virus, which is the causative agent of the COVID-19 epidemic.
icosapentaenoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
ncit covid-19 agent terminology	A terminology subset in NCI Thesaurus (NCIt) containing any agent that is or has been in clinical trial and/or is FDA approved for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19.
eicosapentaenoic acid (epa)	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
icosapent	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
omega-3 fatty acid	A group of unsaturated fatty acids occurring mainly in fish oils, with three double bonds at particular positions in the hydrocarbon chain.
icosapento	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
ethyl icosapentate	A highly purified omega-3 fatty acid that can decrease serum triglyceride levels. Ethyl icosapentate reduces serum triglycerides without an increase in LDL cholesterol, but increases the cholesterol and triglyceride content in skeletal muscle. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C72986" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C72986" NCI Thesaurus)
omega-3 acid ethyl esters (usp)	An ethyl ester form of omega-3 fatty acid derived from fish oil, with activity in decreasing serum triglyceride levels. Although its mechanism of action isn't known, omega-3-acid ethyl esters may work by decreasing the amount of triglycerides and other fats made in the liver.
estimated quantity of intake of eicosapentaenoic acid in 24 hours	The approximate intake in one day of a polyunsaturated, omega 3 fatty acid with a 20-carbon chain and five cis double bonds.
measured intake of eicosapentaenoic acid in 24 hours	The known quantity of intake in one day of a polyunsaturated, omega 3 fatty acid with a 20-carbon chain and five cis double bonds.
eicosapentaenoic acid-containing product	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
decreased eicosapentaenoic acid diet	Decrease in the eicosapentaenoic acid content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of eicosapentaenoic acid for the individual.
acid, eicosapentanoic	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
increased eicosapentaenoic acid diet	Increase in the eicosapentaenoic acid content of the diet compared to the assessed baseline intake of eicosapentaenoic acid for the individual.
all-cis-icosa-5,8,11,14,17-pentaenoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
product containing omega-3-acid ethyl ester	An ethyl ester form of omega-3 fatty acid derived from fish oil, with activity in decreasing serum triglyceride levels. Although its mechanism of action isn't known, omega-3-acid ethyl esters may work by decreasing the amount of triglycerides and other fats made in the liver.
epa - eicosapentanoic acid	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
estimated intake of eicosapentaenoic acid in 24 hours	The approximate intake in one day of a polyunsaturated, omega 3 fatty acid with a 20-carbon chain and five cis double bonds.
epa	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
measured intake of eicosapentaenoic acid in 24 hours (observable entity)	The known quantity of intake in one day of a polyunsaturated, omega 3 fatty acid with a 20-carbon chain and five cis double bonds.
fatty acid 20:5 n-3	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
icosapent ethyl	A highly purified omega-3 fatty acid that can decrease serum triglyceride levels. Ethyl icosapentate reduces serum triglycerides without an increase in LDL cholesterol, but increases the cholesterol and triglyceride content in skeletal muscle. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C72986" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C72986" NCI Thesaurus)
product containing eicosapentaenoic acid (medicinal product)	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
(5s,6z,8e,10e,12r,14z,16e,18r)-5,12,18-trihydroxyicosa-6,8,10,14,16-pentaenoic acid	A polyunsaturated fatty acid in the resolvin family that is a poly-hydroxyl metabolite of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), with potential analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities.
omega-3 fatty acid ethyl esters	An ethyl ester form of omega-3 fatty acid derived from fish oil, with activity in decreasing serum triglyceride levels. Although its mechanism of action isn't known, omega-3-acid ethyl esters may work by decreasing the amount of triglycerides and other fats made in the liver.
fish oil	Oils high in unsaturated fats extracted from the bodies of fish or fish parts, especially the LIVER. Those from the liver are usually high in VITAMIN A. The oils are used as DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS. They are also used in soaps and detergents and as protective coatings.
ipa	Viktig fleromättad fettsyra i fiskolja. Den tjänar som prekursor för prostaglandin-3- och tromboxan-3-familjerna. Diet rik på eikosapentaensyra sänker serumfetthalten, reducerar incidensen av kar diovaskulära sjukdomar, förhindrar trombocytaggregation och hämmar omvandlingen av arakidonsyra till tromboxan-2- och prostaglandin-2-familjerna.
omega-3 acid ethyl ester	An ethyl ester form of omega-3 fatty acid derived from fish oil, with activity in decreasing serum triglyceride levels. Although its mechanism of action isn't known, omega-3-acid ethyl esters may work by decreasing the amount of triglycerides and other fats made in the liver.
fish oil products	Oils high in unsaturated fats extracted from the bodies of fish or fish parts, especially the LIVER. Those from the liver are usually high in VITAMIN A. The oils are used as DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS. They are also used in soaps and detergents and as protective coatings.
5-androstane-3,17-diol	The unspecified form of the steroid, normally a major metabolite of TESTOSTERONE with androgenic activity. It has been implicated as a regulator of gonadotropin secretion.
anabolic agents	Estos compuestos estimulan el anabolismo e inhiben el catabolismo. Estimulan el desarrollo de la masa muscular, la fuerza y la potencia.
androstane-3,17-diol	The unspecified form of the steroid, normally a major metabolite of TESTOSTERONE with androgenic activity. It has been implicated as a regulator of gonadotropin secretion.
5-alpha-androstane-3 alpha,17 beta-diol glucuronide	A glucuronosyltransferase-modified, alcohol-conjugated metabolite of the steroid androsterone and metabolite of the steroid dihydrotestosterone produced in visceral adipose tissue, with weak androgenic activity. Androstane-3,17-diol glucuronide may be used as a marker for peripheral androgen activity.
agents, anabolic	Estos compuestos estimulan el anabolismo e inhiben el catabolismo. Estimulan el desarrollo de la masa muscular, la fuerza y la potencia.
androstanediol 03 17	The unspecified form of the steroid, normally a major metabolite of TESTOSTERONE with androgenic activity. It has been implicated as a regulator of gonadotropin secretion.
5 androstane 3,17 diol	The unspecified form of the steroid, normally a major metabolite of TESTOSTERONE with androgenic activity. It has been implicated as a regulator of gonadotropin secretion.
androstane 3,17 diol	The unspecified form of the steroid, normally a major metabolite of TESTOSTERONE with androgenic activity. It has been implicated as a regulator of gonadotropin secretion.
5-hydroxy tryptophan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
antidepressive drugs, second-generation	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
5-hydroxy- tryptophan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
antidepressive drugs, second generation	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
5-hydroxytryptophan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
second generation antidepressive agents	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
hydroxytryptophan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
2-amino-3-(5-hydroxy-1-h-indol-3-yl)propionic acid	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
oxytryptophan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
antidepressive agents, second generation	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
oxitriptan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
agents, second-generation antidepressive	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
5 hydroxy tryptophan	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
drugs, second-generation antidepressive	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
l-(-)-tryptophan	An essential amino acid that is necessary for normal growth in infants and for NITROGEN balance in adults. It is a precursor of INDOLE ALKALOIDS in plants. It is a precursor of SEROTONIN (hence its use as an antidepressant and sleep aid). It can be a precursor to NIACIN, albeit inefficiently, in mammals.
5-hydroxy-l-tryptophan (oxitriptan)	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
tryptophan	An essential amino acid that is necessary for normal growth in infants and for NITROGEN balance in adults. It is a precursor of INDOLE ALKALOIDS in plants. It is a precursor of SEROTONIN (hence its use as an antidepressant and sleep aid). It can be a precursor to NIACIN, albeit inefficiently, in mammals.
5-htp	The immediate precursor in the biosynthesis of SEROTONIN from tryptophan. It is used as an antiepileptic and antidepressant.
antidepressive agents, second-generation	A structurally and mechanistically diverse group of drugs that are not tricyclics or monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The most clinically important appear to act selectively on serotonergic systems, especially by inhibiting serotonin reuptake.
5-meo-dmt	major of two hallucinogenic components of Teonanacatl, the sacred mushroom of Mexico, the other component being psilocin.
indocybin	Psilocybin je psychedelický indol ze skupiny tryptaminů, obsažený v různých druzích hub, např. rodu Psilocybe (lysohlávka), Panaeolus (kropenatec), nebo Gymnopilus (šupinovka). Účinky psilocybinu jsou vysoce nepředvídatelné a variabilní. Existují důkazy, které naznačují, že psychoaktivní houby byly používány lidmi v náboženských ceremoniích po tisíce let. (upraveno podle Wikipedie 2020 http://www.cs.wikipedia.org/)
meksamine	Serotonin derivative proposed as potentiator for hypnotics and sedatives.
5-meo-dipt	a kind of hallucinogenic drug
ticlopidine hydrochloride (product)	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
platelet adp receptor antagonist	A class of agents that target at platelet ADP receptor or purinergic receptor P2RY12 with antiplatelet activity.
hydrochloride, ticlopidine	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
ticlopidine	An effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation commonly used in the placement of STENTS in CORONARY ARTERIES.
5-(o-chlorobenzyl)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothieno(3,2-c)pyridinium chloride	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
ticlopidine hydrochloride (substance)	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
ticlopidine (substance)	An effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation commonly used in the placement of STENTS in CORONARY ARTERIES.
ticlopidine hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
ticlopidine-containing product	An effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation commonly used in the placement of STENTS in CORONARY ARTERIES.
ticlopidine hcl (medication)	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
clotting disorder	Hemorrhagic and thrombotic disorders that occur as a consequence of abnormalities in blood coagulation due to a variety of factors such as COAGULATION PROTEIN DISORDERS; BLOOD PLATELET DISORDERS; BLOOD PROTEIN DISORDERS or nutritional conditions.
intracranial embolism and thrombosis	Embolism eller trombos i blodkärl som försörjer vävnaderna innanför skallbenet. Orsaken till embolismen går att finna såväl utanför som innanför skallbenet. Trombos kan uppstå antingen i artärer eller vener.
drug allergy	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
hemorrhage	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
ischemia	A hypoperfusion of the BLOOD through an organ or tissue caused by a PATHOLOGIC CONSTRICTION or obstruction of its BLOOD VESSELS, or an absence of BLOOD CIRCULATION.
liver disorder	Pathological processes of the LIVER.
cva - cerebrovascular accident unspecified	sudden neurologic impairment due to a cerebrovascular disorder, either an arterial occlusion or an intracranial hemorrhage.
product containing ticlopidine hydrochloride (medicinal product)	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
thromboembolism	Obstruction of a blood vessel (embolism) by a blood clot (THROMBUS) in the blood stream.
thieno(3,2-c)pyridine, 5-((2-chlorophenyl)methyl)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-, hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
venous thrombosis	The formation or presence of a blood clot (THROMBUS) within a vein.
antiaggregants, platelet	Drugs or agents which antagonize or impair any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation, whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense-granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin-thromboxane system.
antiplatelet agent (product)	An agent that inhibits platelet aggregation and reduces coagulation in the circulatory system.
chlorobenzene (substance)	benzene derivatives with chlorine substituted at one or more positions.
ticlopidinum	An effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation commonly used in the placement of STENTS in CORONARY ARTERIES.
antiaggregant, platelet	Drugs or agents which antagonize or impair any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation, whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense-granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin-thromboxane system.
ticlopidine (medication)	An effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation commonly used in the placement of STENTS in CORONARY ARTERIES.
antiplatelet drug	An agent that inhibits platelet aggregation and reduces coagulation in the circulatory system.
ticlopidine hcl	The hydrochloride salt form of ticlopidine, a thienopyridine derivative with anticoagulant property. Ticlopidine hydrochloride irreversibly inhibits adenosine-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet-fibrinogen binding by binding to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIA complex, one of the two purinergic receptors activated by ADP. Inhibition of the receptor activation causes the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, results in decreased levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby interferes with platelet membrane function and subsequent, platelet-platelet interaction, release of platelet granule constituents and prolongation of bleeding time.
6-aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
hemostatic agent (substance)	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
epsilon-aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
omega-aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
6-aminohexanoic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
antifibrinolytic agents	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
aminocaproic acid (medication)	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
antifibrinolytic agents (medication)	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
aminocaproic acid 06	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
fibrinolytic inhibitor	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
antifibrinolysin	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
e-amino-n-caproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
antifibrinolysins	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
eacs	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
aminocaproic acid - chemical (product)	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
epsilon aminocaproic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
hematological agents antifibrinolysis	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
epsilon s	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
amino acid preparation	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
epsilon-aminohexanoic acid	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
hemostatic	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
hemostatic agents	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
amino acid	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
substances that stop bleeding	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
coagulation, intravascular disseminated	A disorder characterized by procoagulant substances entering the general circulation causing a systemic thrombotic process. The activation of the clotting mechanism may arise from any of a number of disorders. A majority of the patients manifest skin lesions, sometimes leading to PURPURA FULMINANS.
haemorrhage	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
aminocaproic acid (substance)	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
amino acid preparation (substance)	Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
aminocapronsäure	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
acide aminocaproïque	A synthetic lysine derivative with antifibrinolytic activity. Aminocaproic acid competitively inhibits activation of plasminogen, thereby reducing conversion of plasminogen to plasmin (fibrinolysin), an enzyme that degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and other plasma proteins including the procoagulant factors V and VIII. Aminocaproic acid competitively reduces the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activators. It directly inhibits proteolytic activity of plasmin, but higher doses are required than are needed to reduce plasmin formation. Aminocaproic acid is used in the treatment of hemorrhage and prophylactically against hemorrhage, including hyperfibrinolysis-induced hemorrhage and postsurgical hemorrhage.
haemostatic drug	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
haemostatic (qualifier value)	Agents acting to arrest the flow of blood. Absorbable hemostatics arrest bleeding either by the formation of an artificial clot or by providing a mechanical matrix that facilitates clotting when applied directly to the bleeding surface. These agents function more at the capillary level and are not effective at stemming arterial or venous bleeding under any significant intravascular pressure.
fibrinolytic inhibitor, nos	Agents that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus. Several endogenous antiplasmins are known. The drugs are used to control massive hemorrhage and in other coagulation disorders.
aminonicotinamide	A vitamin antagonist which has teratogenic effects.
teratogens	An agent that causes the production of physical defects in the developing embryo.
6-aminonicotinamide	A vitamin antagonist which has teratogenic effects.
aminopyridine	Pyridines substituted in any position with an amino group. May be hydrogenated but must retain at least one double bond.
teratogen	An agent that causes the production of physical defects in the developing embryo.
teratogen (product)	An agent that causes the production of physical defects in the developing embryo.
6 aminonicotinamide	A vitamin antagonist which has teratogenic effects.
teratogenic substance, nos	An agent that causes the production of physical defects in the developing embryo.
radiosensitizer	Drugs used to potentiate the effectiveness of radiation therapy in destroying unwanted cells.
teratogen (substance)	An agent that causes the production of physical defects in the developing embryo.
alpha, 6-keto-pgf1	The physiologically active and stable hydrolysis product of EPOPROSTENOL. Found in nearly all mammalian tissue.
2,3-dinor-6-keto-pgf1alpha	A beta-oxidation product of 6-keto prostaglandin F1 alpha (PGF1a) and the major urinary metabolite of prostaglandin I2 (prostacyclin, PGI2). 2,3-dinor-6-ketoprostaglandin F1alpha in urine is often used as a correlative marker to indirectly measure prostacyclin production.
prost-13-en-1-oic acid, 9,11,15-trihydroxy-6-oxo-, (9alpha,11alpha,13e,15s)-	The physiologically active and stable hydrolysis product of EPOPROSTENOL. Found in nearly all mammalian tissue.
prostanoid (substance)	A group of compounds derived from unsaturated 20-carbon fatty acids, primarily arachidonic acid, via the cyclooxygenase pathway. They are extremely potent mediators of a diverse group of physiological processes.
alpha, 6-oxoprostaglandin f1	The physiologically active and stable hydrolysis product of EPOPROSTENOL. Found in nearly all mammalian tissue.
alpha, 6-ketoprostaglandin f1	The physiologically active and stable hydrolysis product of EPOPROSTENOL. Found in nearly all mammalian tissue.
mercaptopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
antimetabolite (product)	Drugs that are chemically similar to naturally occurring metabolites, but differ enough to interfere with normal metabolic pathways. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2033)
mercaptopurinum	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
6-mercaptopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
immunosuppressant	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
product containing mercaptopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
nucleic acid synthesis inhibitors	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
6 mp	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
6h-purine-6-thione, 1,7-dihydro- (9ci)	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
6-purinethiol	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
immune suppressant	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
6-thiopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
6-thioxopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
agent, immunosuppressive	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
mercaptopurine anhydrous	The anhydrous form of mercaptopurine, a thiopurine-derivative antimetabolite with antineoplastic and immunosuppressive activities. Produced through the metabolism of mercaptopurine by hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT), mercaptopurine metabolites 6-thioguanosine-5'-phosphate (6-thioGMP) and 6-thioinosine monophosphate (T-IMP) inhibit nucleotide interconversions and de novo purine synthesis, thereby blocking the formation of purine nucleotides and inhibiting DNA synthesis. This agent is also incorporated into DNA in the form of deoxythioguanosine, which results in the disruption of DNA replication. In addition, mercaptopurine is converted to 6-methylmercaptopurine ribonucleoside (MMPR) by 6-thiopurine methyltransferase; MMPRs are also potent inhibitors of de novo purine synthesis.
chemotherapy drugs, cancer	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
1,7-dihydro-6h-purine-6-thione	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
drug allergy (disorder)	Immunologically mediated adverse reactions to medicinal substances used legally or illegally.
leukemia, lymphoblastic, chronic	chronic leukemia characterized by morphologically mature but immunologically less mature lymphocytes; manifested by an abnormal accumulation of these cells in blood, bone marrow, and lymphatic tissue.
liver; disease	Pathological processes of the LIVER.
non-hodgkin's lymphoma nos	Any of a group of malignant tumors of lymphoid tissue that differ from HODGKIN DISEASE, being more heterogeneous with respect to malignant cell lineage, clinical course, prognosis, and therapy. The only common feature among these tumors is the absence of giant REED-STERNBERG CELLS, a characteristic of Hodgkin's disease.
neutropenia	A decrease in the number of NEUTROPHILS found in the blood.
pregnancy	The status during which female mammals carry their developing young (EMBRYOS or FETUSES) in utero before birth, beginning from FERTILIZATION to BIRTH.
thrombocytopenia	A subnormal level of BLOOD PLATELETS.
mern	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
mercaptopurine tablet	The anhydrous form of mercaptopurine, a thiopurine-derivative antimetabolite with antineoplastic and immunosuppressive activities. Produced through the metabolism of mercaptopurine by hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT), mercaptopurine metabolites 6-thioguanosine-5'-phosphate (6-thioGMP) and 6-thioinosine monophosphate (T-IMP) inhibit nucleotide interconversions and de novo purine synthesis, thereby blocking the formation of purine nucleotides and inhibiting DNA synthesis. This agent is also incorporated into DNA in the form of deoxythioguanosine, which results in the disruption of DNA replication. In addition, mercaptopurine is converted to 6-methylmercaptopurine ribonucleoside (MMPR) by 6-thiopurine methyltransferase; MMPRs are also potent inhibitors of de novo purine synthesis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C64832" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C64832" NCI Thesaurus)
7-mercapto-1,3,4,6-tetrazaindene	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
liver metabolism	sum of chemical changes that occur within the liver of an organism consisting of anabolism (biosynthesis) and catabolism; the buildup and breakdown of molecules for utilization by the liver.
acute lymphoid leukemia	A neoplasm characterized by abnormalities of the lymphoid cell precursors leading to excessive lymphoblasts in the marrow and other organs. It is the most common cancer in children and accounts for the vast majority of all childhood leukemias.
6-mp oral suspension	An oral suspension containing the thiopurine-derivative antimetabolite 6-mercaptopurine, with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, mercaptopurine is metabolized by hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRTase) to its active metabolite 6-thioinosine monophosphate (TIMP); TIMP inhibits nucleotide interconversions and de novo purine ribonucleotide synthesis, which both blocks the formation of purine nucleotides and inhibits DNA synthesis. This agent is also incorporated into DNA in the form of deoxythioguanosine, which results in the disruption of DNA replication. By blocking DNA synthesis and replication, cancer cells are unable to proliferate. Compared to the tablet formulation, the liquid is easier to swallow and offers more flexibility and accuracy in dosing, which is beneficial for use in pediatric patients.
6-thiohypoxanthine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
6 mercaptopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
immunosuppressive	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
mercapurin	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
inhib nucleic acid syn	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
azathioprine	An immunosuppressive agent used in combination with cyclophosphamide and hydroxychloroquine in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), this substance has been listed as a known carcinogen. (Merck Index, 11th ed)
febuxostat	An orally available, non-purine inhibitor of xanthine oxidase with uric acid lowering activity. Upon oral administration, febuxostat selectively and noncompetitively inhibits the activity of xanthine oxidase, an enzyme that converts oxypurines, including hypoxanthine and xanthine, into uric acid. By inhibiting xanthine oxidase, uric acid production is reduced and serum uric acid levels are lowered. Febuxostat may provide protection against acute renal failure caused by the excessive release of uric acid that occurs upon massive tumor cell lysis resulting from the treatment of some malignancies.
mercapto-6-purine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
product containing mercaptopurine (medicinal product)	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
immunosuppressive agents	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
inhibitors, nucleic acid synthesis	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
butocine	A S-substituted analog of mercaptopurine and purine antagonist with cytostatic activity. Butocin inhibits purine nucleotide synthesis and DNA replication.
cytarabine/daunorubicin/mercaptopurine/prednisolone	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of cytarabine, daunorubicin, mercaptopurine, and prednisolone that may be used in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
9-ethyl 6-mp	A synthetic alkyl derivative prodrug of the antineoplastic agent 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP). In vivo, 9-ethyl 6-mercaptopurine appears to be converted to 6-MP, which substitutes for the normal nucleoside and fraudulently incorporates into DNA and inhibits de novo purine synthesis, thereby inducing cell death. (NCI04)
6 thiohypoxanthine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
immunosuppressants	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
6mp - mercaptopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
6 thiopurine	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
nucleic acid synthesis inhibitor	Compounds that inhibit cell production of DNA or RNA.
6h-purine-6-thione, 1,7-dihydro-	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
immunosuppressant (product)	Agents that suppress immune function by one of several mechanisms of action. Classical cytotoxic immunosuppressants act by inhibiting DNA synthesis. Others may act through activation of T-CELLS or by inhibiting the activation of HELPER CELLS. While immunosuppression has been brought about in the past primarily to prevent rejection of transplanted organs, new applications involving mediation of the effects of INTERLEUKINS and other CYTOKINES are emerging.
purine antagonist	An antimetabolite that affects the metabolism and utilization of purines.
analogues purine	synthetic or natural chemical compounds which resemble naturally occurring purine in structure and/or function.
purine-6-thiol (8ci)	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
antimetab antineopl	Antimetabolites that are useful in cancer chemotherapy.
antineoplastic agent, nos	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
substance with purine antagonist mechanism of action (substance)	An antimetabolite that affects the metabolism and utilization of purines.
mp	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
purine analog	synthetic or natural chemical compounds which resemble naturally occurring purine in structure and/or function.
product containing purine analog	synthetic or natural chemical compounds which resemble naturally occurring purine in structure and/or function.
chemotherapy drug, cancer	Substances that inhibit or prevent the proliferation of NEOPLASMS.
purine inhibitors	An antimetabolite that affects the metabolism and utilization of purines.
purine analog (substance)	synthetic or natural chemical compounds which resemble naturally occurring purine in structure and/or function.
cyclophosphamide/mercaptopurine/prednisone/vincristine regimen	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of vincristine, cyclophosphamide, mercaptopurine, and prednisone that may be used in the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma.
mercaptopurine/methotrexate	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of mercaptopurine and methotrexate that may be used in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
purine antagonist (product)	An antimetabolite that affects the metabolism and utilization of purines.
mercaptopurine (substance)	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
6-mp	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
purine, 6-mercapto-	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
mercaptopurina	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
purine antagonist product	An antimetabolite that affects the metabolism and utilization of purines.
mercaptopurine product	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
immunosuppression	natural, usually physiologic downregulation of the immune system; compare with ARTIFICIAL IMMUNOSUPPRESSION.
dcmp	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of cytarabine, daunorubicin, mercaptopurine, and prednisolone that may be used in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
ctx/mp/pred/vcr	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of vincristine, cyclophosphamide, mercaptopurine, and prednisone that may be used in the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma.
dna synthesis inhibition	DNA Synthesis Inhibition involves interference with, or restraint of, the activities involved in the polymeric linkage of deoxyribose moieties (with adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine side chains) by phosphate groups attached to their 5-prime and 3-prime sugar hydroxyls.
3h-purine-6-thiol	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
purine synthesis inhibition	Purine Synthesis Inhibition involves interference with, or restraint of, the activities of biologic molecules or complexes involved in the enzymatic formation of purine nucleoside phosphates, monomeric building blocks from which DNA or RNA polymers are constructed.
enzyme inhibition	Enzyme Inhibition involves interference with, or restraint of, the function of a biological molecule that possesses catalytic activity.
incorporation of nucleoside analogue	Nucleoside Analogue Incorporation involves assimilation of nucleoside or nucleotide analogues into DNA or RNA.
6mp	An antimetabolite antineoplastic agent with immunosuppressant properties. It interferes with nucleic acid synthesis by inhibiting purine metabolism and is used, usually in combination with other drugs, in the treatment of or in remission maintenance programs for leukemia.
larson regimen	A regimen consisting of five phases used for the treatment of adult lymphoblastic leukemia. The five phases include: induction, early intensification, central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis and interim maintenance, late intensification and prolonged maintenance.
nhl-bfm-90 regimen	A regimen used for the treatment of localized aggressive forms of childhood B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, including lymphoblastic lymphoma.
bfm 95 regimen	A modified version of the NHL-BFM 90 regimen, employing a different methotrexate dosing schedule, used for the treatment of localized aggressive forms of childhood B-cell lymphoma, including lymphoblastic lymphoma.
dccmp regimen	A chemotherapy regimen consisting of daunorubicin, cyclocytidine, 6-mercaptopurine, and prednisone that may be used in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
benzo(a)pyrene 7,8-dihydrodiol 9,10-epoxide	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
benzo(10,11)chryseno(3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol, 7,8,8a,9a-tetrahydro-	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
bpde	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
benzopyrenediol epoxide	9,10-dihydroxy-11,12-epoxy-9,10,11,12- tetranhydrobenzo(a)pyrene, a metabolite of BAPN, has been called "the ultimate carcinogen"; extremely electrophilic, it can form covalent adducts with both DNA and proteins.
8a,9a-dihydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno(3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
7 8 ddbp	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
7,8-dihydroxy-9,10-epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo(a)pyrene	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
dihydroxyepoxytetrahydrobenzopyrene 07 08 09 10	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-diol 9,10-epoxide	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
dihydrodihydroxybenzoapyreneoxide 07 08 07 08 09 10	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
benzopyrene a dihydrodiol epoxide 07 08 09 10	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
7,8-bap-9,10-diol epoxide	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
anti-bapde	7,8,8a,9a-Tetrahydrobenzo(10,11)chryseno (3,4-b)oxirene-7,8-diol. A benzopyrene derivative with carcinogenic and mutagenic activity.
dna adduct forming agent	An agent capable of attaching to DNA with a covent bond. DNA adduct forming agents cause disruption of DNA replication and mitosis.
(z,z,z)-8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid	A 20-carbon-chain fatty acid, unsaturated at positions 8, 11, and 14. It differs from arachidonic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid, only at position 5.
5,8,11-eicosatrienoic acid	A polyunsaturated long-chain fatty acid with a 20-carbon backbone and 3 double bonds, originating from the 9th, 12th and 15th positions from the methyl end, with all bonds in the cis- configuration.
cis,cis,cis-8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid	A 20-carbon-chain fatty acid, unsaturated at positions 8, 11, and 14. It differs from arachidonic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid, only at position 5.
fatty acids, omega 6	FATTY ACIDS which have the first unsaturated bond in the sixth position from the omega carbon. A typical American diet tends to contain substantially more omega-6 than OMEGA-3 FATTY ACIDS.
all-cis-icosa-8,11,14-trienoic acid	A 20-carbon-chain fatty acid, unsaturated at positions 8, 11, and 14. It differs from arachidonic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid, only at position 5.
eicosatrienoic acid	A polyunsaturated long-chain fatty acid with a 20-carbon backbone and exactly 3 double bonds. Six different isomers can be called by this name.
(8z,11z,14z)-icosatrienoic acid	A 20-carbon-chain fatty acid, unsaturated at positions 8, 11, and 14. It differs from arachidonic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid, only at position 5.
dihomogammalinolenic acid	A 20-carbon-chain fatty acid, unsaturated at positions 8, 11, and 14. It differs from arachidonic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid, only at position 5.
polyunsaturated fatty acid (substance)	A class of dietary fatty acids containing two or more double bonds.
8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid	A 20-carbon-chain fatty acid, unsaturated at positions 8, 11, and 14. It differs from arachidonic acid, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid, only at position 5.
pufa	A class of dietary fatty acids containing two or more double bonds.
br cycl amp	A long-acting derivative of cyclic AMP. It is an activator of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, but resistant to degradation by cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase.
tocladesine	An antimetabolite and a chlorine derivative of the intracellular secondary messenger, cyclic adenosine 3,5-monophosphate (cAMP), with potential antineoplastic activity. Tocladesine appears to be converted to 8-chloro-adenosine by phosphodiesterases and subsequently phosphorylated to 8-chloro-ATP, which functions as a purine analogue and competes with ATP in transcription. In addition, generation of 8-chloro-ATP depletes the endogenous ATP pool that is essential for many biological reactions in intracellular energy transfer. As a result, this agent causes RNA synthesis inhibition, blocks cellular proliferation, and induces apoptosis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C2571" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C2571" NCI Thesaurus)
oxyquinoline	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
tiliquinol	An antiprotozoal agent that was used in combination with tibroquinol. The combination agent was withdrawn from the market because of hepatoxicity.
8 oxyquinoline	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
quinolinols	The 8-hydroxy derivatives inhibit various enzymes and their halogenated derivatives, though neurotoxic, are used as topical anti-infective agents, among other uses.
8-oxyquinoline	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
topical anti-infective agent	A natural or synthetic agent used for local application on skin, mucosa, or cavities, a Topical Anti-Infective Agent, formulated as a sterile solution or cream, commonly displays therapeutic or prophylactic antibiotic properties against infectious viral, bacterial, or protozoal agents by inhibiting growth and survival. (NCI04)
8-quinolinol	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
antiprotozoal agent	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
antiprotozoal drugs	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
chloroquinaldol	Local anti-infective agent used for skin, gastrointestinal, and vaginal infections with fungi, protozoa, and certain bacteria. In animals, it causes central nervous system damage and is not administered parenterally. It is also used as antiseptic, fungistat, or deodorant.
iodoquinol (vaginal) (medication)	One of the halogenated 8-quinolinols widely used as an intestinal antiseptic, especially as an antiamebic agent. It is also used topically in other infections and may cause CNS and eye damage. It is known by very many similar trade names world-wide.
8-oxyquinol	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
hydroquinone	1,4-dihydroxybenzene.
oxyquinoline (product)	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
hydroxychloroquine	A chemotherapeutic agent that acts against erythrocytic forms of malarial parasites. Hydroxychloroquine appears to concentrate in food vacuoles of affected protozoa. It inhibits plasmodial heme polymerase. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p970)
5 chloro 7 iodo 8 quinolinol	A potentially neurotoxic 8-hydroxyquinoline derivative long used as a topical anti-infective, intestinal antiamebic, and vaginal trichomonacide. The oral preparation has been shown to cause subacute myelo-optic neuropathy and has been banned worldwide.
oxyquinoline (substance)	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
4-methoxyphenol	A synthetic derivate of hydroquinone and depigmenting agent. Although the exact mechanism of the depigmenting effects of mequinol remains unclear, it may exert its effect by oxidation of tyrosinase to cytotoxic products in melanocytes. Mequinol may also act by competitively inhibiting the formation of melanin precursors.
monobenzonum	A monobenzyl ether of hydroquinone with topical depigmentation activity. Although the exact mechanism of action of depigmentation is unknown, the metabolites of monobenzone appear to have a cytotoxic effect on melanocytes. Furthermore, the depigmentation effect might be mediated through the inhibition of tyrosinase, which is essential in the synthesis of melanin pigments, thereby causing permanent depigmentation of the skin. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C992" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C992" NCI Thesaurus)
antiprotozoal	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
5,7 dichloro 2 methyl 8 quinolinol	Local anti-infective agent used for skin, gastrointestinal, and vaginal infections with fungi, protozoa, and certain bacteria. In animals, it causes central nervous system damage and is not administered parenterally. It is also used as antiseptic, fungistat, or deodorant.
diiodohydroxyquinoline (substance)	One of the halogenated 8-quinolinols widely used as an intestinal antiseptic, especially as an antiamebic agent. It is also used topically in other infections and may cause CNS and eye damage. It is known by very many similar trade names world-wide.
8 hydroxyquinoline	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
oxine	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
mequinol	A synthetic derivate of hydroquinone and depigmenting agent. Although the exact mechanism of the depigmenting effects of mequinol remains unclear, it may exert its effect by oxidation of tyrosinase to cytotoxic products in melanocytes. Mequinol may also act by competitively inhibiting the formation of melanin precursors.
product containing 8-hydroxyquinoline (medicinal product)	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
monobenzone	A monobenzyl ether of hydroquinone with topical depigmentation activity. Although the exact mechanism of action of depigmentation is unknown, the metabolites of monobenzone appear to have a cytotoxic effect on melanocytes. Furthermore, the depigmentation effect might be mediated through the inhibition of tyrosinase, which is essential in the synthesis of melanin pigments, thereby causing permanent depigmentation of the skin. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C992" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C992" NCI Thesaurus)
antiprotozoal agents	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
hydroxyquinoline	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
anti-bacterial compounds	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
skin infection	Skin diseases caused by bacteria, fungi, parasites, or viruses.
chlorquinaldol	Local anti-infective agent used for skin, gastrointestinal, and vaginal infections with fungi, protozoa, and certain bacteria. In animals, it causes central nervous system damage and is not administered parenterally. It is also used as antiseptic, fungistat, or deodorant.
8-hydroxyquinoline	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
iodoquinol	One of the halogenated 8-quinolinols widely used as an intestinal antiseptic, especially as an antiamebic agent. It is also used topically in other infections and may cause CNS and eye damage. It is known by very many similar trade names world-wide.
hydroquinone (medication)	1,4-dihydroxybenzene.
monobenzone (medication)	A monobenzyl ether of hydroquinone with topical depigmentation activity. Although the exact mechanism of action of depigmentation is unknown, the metabolites of monobenzone appear to have a cytotoxic effect on melanocytes. Furthermore, the depigmentation effect might be mediated through the inhibition of tyrosinase, which is essential in the synthesis of melanin pigments, thereby causing permanent depigmentation of the skin. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C992" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C992" NCI Thesaurus)
antiprotozoan agents (medication)	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
antiprotozoal agent (substance)	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
antibacterial agent	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
clorquinaldol	Local anti-infective agent used for skin, gastrointestinal, and vaginal infections with fungi, protozoa, and certain bacteria. In animals, it causes central nervous system damage and is not administered parenterally. It is also used as antiseptic, fungistat, or deodorant.
2-((4-((7-chloro-4-quinolyl)amino)pentyl)ethylamino)ethanol	A chemotherapeutic agent that acts against erythrocytic forms of malarial parasites. Hydroxychloroquine appears to concentrate in food vacuoles of affected protozoa. It inhibits plasmodial heme polymerase. (From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p970)
oxyquinoline-containing product	An antiseptic with mild fungistatic, bacteriostatic, anthelmintic, and amebicidal action. It is also used as a reagent and metal chelator, as a carrier for radio-indium for diagnostic purposes, and its halogenated derivatives are used in addition as topical anti-infective agents and oral antiamebics.
clioquinol	A potentially neurotoxic 8-hydroxyquinoline derivative long used as a topical anti-infective, intestinal antiamebic, and vaginal trichomonacide. The oral preparation has been shown to cause subacute myelo-optic neuropathy and has been banned worldwide.
mbeh	A monobenzyl ether of hydroquinone with topical depigmentation activity. Although the exact mechanism of action of depigmentation is unknown, the metabolites of monobenzone appear to have a cytotoxic effect on melanocytes. Furthermore, the depigmentation effect might be mediated through the inhibition of tyrosinase, which is essential in the synthesis of melanin pigments, thereby causing permanent depigmentation of the skin. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C992" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C992" NCI Thesaurus)
product containing antiprotozoal	Substances that are destructive to protozoans.
dimethylbenzanthracene 09 10 01 02	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon found in tobacco smoke that is a potent carcinogen.
7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon found in tobacco smoke that is a potent carcinogen.
dimethylbenzanthracene 07 12	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon found in tobacco smoke that is a potent carcinogen.
dmba	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon found in tobacco smoke that is a potent carcinogen.
dimethylbenzanthracene	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon found in tobacco smoke that is a potent carcinogen.
7,12-dimethylbenzanthracene	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon found in tobacco smoke that is a potent carcinogen.
hydrocarbon, polynuclear aromatic	Aromatic hydrocarbons that contain extended fused-ring structures.
4-benzoxazolecarboxylic acid, 5-(methylamino)-2-(((2r,3r,6s,8s,9r,11r)-3,9,11-trimethyl-8-((1s)-1-methyl-2-oxo-2-(1h-pyrrol-2-yl)ethyl)-1,7-dioxaspiro(5.5)undec-2-yl)methyl)-	An ionophorous, polyether antibiotic from Streptomyces chartreusensis. It binds and transports CALCIUM and other divalent cations across membranes and uncouples oxidative phosphorylation while inhibiting ATPase of rat liver mitochondria. The substance is used mostly as a biochemical tool to study the role of divalent cations in various biological systems.
antibacterial drugs	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
5-(methylamino)-2-(((2r,3r,6s,8s,9r,11r)-3,9,11-trimethyl-8-((1s)-1-methyl-2-oxo-2-(1h-pyrrol-2-yl)ethyl)-1,7-dioxaspiro(5.5)undec-2-yl)methyl)-4-benzoxazolecarboxylic acid	An ionophorous, polyether antibiotic from Streptomyces chartreusensis. It binds and transports CALCIUM and other divalent cations across membranes and uncouples oxidative phosphorylation while inhibiting ATPase of rat liver mitochondria. The substance is used mostly as a biochemical tool to study the role of divalent cations in various biological systems.
calcium ionophores	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of CELL MEMBRANES to CALCIUM ions.
calcimycin	An ionophorous, polyether antibiotic from Streptomyces chartreusensis. It binds and transports CALCIUM and other divalent cations across membranes and uncouples oxidative phosphorylation while inhibiting ATPase of rat liver mitochondria. The substance is used mostly as a biochemical tool to study the role of divalent cations in various biological systems.
compound, anti-bacterial	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
calcium ionophore	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of CELL MEMBRANES to CALCIUM ions.
ionophore	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of biological or artificial lipid membranes to specific ions. Most ionophores are relatively small organic molecules that act as mobile carriers within membranes or coalesce to form ion permeable channels across membranes. Many are antibiotics, and many act as uncoupling agents by short-circuiting the proton gradient across mitochondrial membranes.
antibacterial agents	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
antibiotic	substances produced by microorganisms or biomimetics that can inhibit or suppress the growth of other microorganisms; frequently used without reference to the microbial origins of the original substance.
4-benzoxazolecarboxylic acid, 5-(methylamino)-2-((3,9,11-trimethyl-8-(1-methyl-2-oxo-2-(1h-pyrrol-2-yl)ethyl)-1,7-dioxaspiro(5.5)undec-2-yl)methyl)-, (6s-(6alpha(2s*,3s*),8beta(r*),9beta,11alpha))-	An ionophorous, polyether antibiotic from Streptomyces chartreusensis. It binds and transports CALCIUM and other divalent cations across membranes and uncouples oxidative phosphorylation while inhibiting ATPase of rat liver mitochondria. The substance is used mostly as a biochemical tool to study the role of divalent cations in various biological systems.
calcium ionophore (substance)	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of CELL MEMBRANES to CALCIUM ions.
antibacterial	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
anti-bacterial agents	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
antibacterials	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
ionophores, calcium	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of CELL MEMBRANES to CALCIUM ions.
calcium ionophore [dup] (substance)	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of CELL MEMBRANES to CALCIUM ions.
anti bacterial agent	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
antibiotic a-23187	An ionophorous, polyether antibiotic from Streptomyces chartreusensis. It binds and transports CALCIUM and other divalent cations across membranes and uncouples oxidative phosphorylation while inhibiting ATPase of rat liver mitochondria. The substance is used mostly as a biochemical tool to study the role of divalent cations in various biological systems.
ionophore, calcium	Chemical agents that increase the permeability of CELL MEMBRANES to CALCIUM ions.
antibacterial drugs (product)	substance that destroys bacteria or prevents their growth or replication.
dna, a form	An isoform of DNA that occurs in an environment rich in SODIUM and POTASSIUM ions. It is a right-handed helix with 11 base pairs per turn, a pitch of 0.256 nm per base pair and a helical diameter of 2.3 nm.
dna structure	The structure of a DNA molecule, consisting of its primary nucleotide sequence as well as its secondary and tertiary arrangement in space.
temephos (substance)	An organothiophosphate insecticide.
insecticide	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
temephos	An organothiophosphate insecticide.
insecticide product	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
insecticides	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
phosphorothioic acid, o,o'-(thiodi-4,1-phenylene) o,o,o',o'-tetramethyl ester	An organothiophosphate insecticide.
invertebrate pest poison	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
temefos	An organothiophosphate insecticide.
pesticide	Chemicals used to destroy pests of any sort. The concept includes fungicides (FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL); INSECTICIDES; RODENTICIDES; etc.
product containing insecticide (product)	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
medicinal product acting as insecticide agent (product)	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
insecticide agent	Pesticides designed to control insects that are harmful to man. The insects may be directly harmful, as those acting as disease vectors, or indirectly harmful, as destroyers of crops, food products, or textile fabrics.
abbreviated injury scale	Classification system for assessing impact injury severity developed and published by the American Association for Automotive Medicine. It is the system of choice for coding single injuries and is the foundation for methods assessing multiple injuries or for assessing cumulative effects of more than one injury. These include Maximum AIS (MAIS), Injury Severity Score (ISS), and Probability of Death Score (PODS).
inj severity score	An anatomic severity scale based on the Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) and developed specifically to score multiple traumatic injuries. It has been used as a predictor of mortality.
abbreviations	A shortened form of a word or phrase.
rdomain	The short name for a related domain.
terminology entity	Terminology entities represent the elements that form and define an ontology.
abbreviation	A shortened form of a word or phrase.
cdisc terminology	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium.
carelex electronic trial master file terminology	Carelex eMTF is a controlled vocabulary developed to support content interoperability between electronic Trial Master File systems for clinical trials.
cdisc glossary terminology	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Glossary group.
abbreviations as topic	Works about shortened forms of written words or phrases used for brevity.
intra-abdominopelvic structure and/or anterior abdominal wall	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
adrenal glands	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
abdomen	Området i buken som sträcker sig från mellangärdet till den övre öppningen i bäckenet. Bukhålan består av bukhinna och bukens inre organ samt området utanför bukhinnan inklusive retroperitonealrum.
biliary tract	The BILE DUCTS and the GALLBLADDER.
diaphragms	The musculofibrous partition that separates the THORACIC CAVITY from the ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Contraction of the diaphragm increases the volume of the thoracic cavity aiding INHALATION.
abd	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
gallbladder	A storage reservoir for BILE secretion. Gallbladder allows the delivery of bile acids at a high concentration and in a controlled manner, via the CYSTIC DUCT to the DUODENUM, for degradation of dietary lipid.
abdominopelvis	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
liver	A large lobed glandular organ in the abdomen of vertebrates that is responsible for detoxification, metabolism, synthesis and storage of various substances.
abdominal structure (body structure)	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
pancreatic	A nodular organ in the ABDOMEN that contains a mixture of ENDOCRINE GLANDS and EXOCRINE GLANDS. The small endocrine portion consists of the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS secreting a number of hormones into the blood stream. The large exocrine portion (EXOCRINE PANCREAS) is a compound acinar gland that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system that empties into the DUODENUM.
structure of abdominopelvic cavity and/or content of abdominopelvic cavity and/or anterior abdominal wall	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
spleen	An encapsulated lymphatic organ through which venous blood filters.
right kidney	Kidney located right of sagittal midplane of body.
left kidney structure	Kidney located left of sagittal midplane of body.
abdominal cavity	Området i buken som sträcker sig från mellangärdet till den övre öppningen i bäckenet. Bukhålan består av bukhinna och bukens inre organ samt området utanför bukhinnan inklusive retroperitonealrum.
peritoneal sac structure (body structure)	Serous sac that surrounds the abdominal viscera and lines the abdominal cavity. Examples: There is only one peritoneal sac.
abdomen and	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
abdominal wall structure (body structure)	The outer margins of the ABDOMEN, extending from the osteocartilaginous thoracic cage to the PELVIS. Though its major part is muscular, the abdominal wall consists of at least seven layers: the SKIN, subcutaneous fat, deep FASCIA; ABDOMINAL MUSCLES, transversalis fascia, extraperitoneal fat, and the parietal PERITONEUM.
abdomen+	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
truncus	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the thoracic and lumbar vertebral column, sacrum and coccyx, it is partially surrounded by skin of trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk.
trunk	Body part, which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the thoracic and lumbar vertebral column, sacrum and coccyx, it is partially surrounded by skin of trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk.
adrenal gland, nos	A pair of glands located at the cranial pole of each of the two KIDNEYS. Each adrenal gland is composed of two distinct endocrine tissues with separate embryonic origins, the ADRENAL CORTEX producing STEROIDS and the ADRENAL MEDULLA producing NEUROTRANSMITTERS.
abdominopelvic region	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
diaphragm	The musculofibrous partition that separates the THORACIC CAVITY from the ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Contraction of the diaphragm increases the volume of the thoracic cavity aiding INHALATION.
vesica biliaris	A storage reservoir for BILE secretion. Gallbladder allows the delivery of bile acids at a high concentration and in a controlled manner, via the CYSTIC DUCT to the DUODENUM, for degradation of dietary lipid.
structure of abdominopelvic cavity and/or content of abdominopelvic cavity and/or anterior abdominal wall (body structure)	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
abdominal structure	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
pancreas	A nodular organ in the ABDOMEN that contains a mixture of ENDOCRINE GLANDS and EXOCRINE GLANDS. The small endocrine portion consists of the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS secreting a number of hormones into the blood stream. The large exocrine portion (EXOCRINE PANCREAS) is a compound acinar gland that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system that empties into the DUODENUM.
kidney.left	Kidney located left of sagittal midplane of body.
cavitas abdominalis	Området i buken som sträcker sig från mellangärdet till den övre öppningen i bäckenet. Bukhålan består av bukhinna och bukens inre organ samt området utanför bukhinnan inklusive retroperitonealrum.
peritoneal sac	Serous sac that surrounds the abdominal viscera and lines the abdominal cavity. Examples: There is only one peritoneal sac.
abdominal wall	The outer margins of the ABDOMEN, extending from the osteocartilaginous thoracic cage to the PELVIS. Though its major part is muscular, the abdominal wall consists of at least seven layers: the SKIN, subcutaneous fat, deep FASCIA; ABDOMINAL MUSCLES, transversalis fascia, extraperitoneal fat, and the parietal PERITONEUM.
abdominal radiography	Radiographic visualization of the body between the thorax and the pelvis, i.e., within the peritoneal cavity.
trauma to the abdomen	General or unspecified injuries involving organs in the abdominal cavity.
subdivision of front of trunk	subdivision of trunk, each instance of which is a regional part of front of trunk; together with the meronymic sum of subdivisions of trunk constitute the trunk. Examples: thorax, abdomen, pelvis.
abdominal back	subdivision of back each instance of which has as its constitutional part some complete set of vertebral arches (L1-L5) and anatomical entities located posterior to them; together with back of thorax and back of pelvis constitutes the back. Examples: There is only one back of abdomen.
structure of abdominopelvic segment of trunk (body structure)	Subdivision of trunk which has as its parts the abdomen and the back of abdomen. Examples: There is only one abdominal segment of trunk.
upper abdomen (surface region) (body structure)	The superior portion of the abdomen.
structure of right upper quadrant of abdomen	The region of the abdomen that extends from the median plane to the right of the patient, and from the umbilical plane to the right ribcage.
right lower quadrant	The region of the abdomen that extends from the median plane to the right of the patient, and from the umbilical plane to the right inguinal ligament.
structure of left upper quadrant of abdomen (body structure)	The region of the abdomen that extends from the median plane to the left of the patient, and from the umbilical plane to the left ribcage.
structure of left lower quadrant of abdomen (body structure)	The region of the abdomen that extends from the median plane to the left of the patient, and below the umbilicus.
cavitas pelvis (pelvica)	Subdivision of trunk, which is demarcated from the abdomen by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture, and from the perineum by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm; together with the thorax, abdomen, and perineum, it constitutes the trunk. Examples: There is only one pelvis.
intrapelvic	Subdivision of trunk, which is demarcated from the abdomen by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture, and from the perineum by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm; together with the thorax, abdomen, and perineum, it constitutes the trunk. Examples: There is only one pelvis.
anterolateral part of trunk	Subdivision of trunk which is demarcated from the back of trunk by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage, the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines, the external surface of the posterior abdominal wall and from the limbs by the inguinal folds; together with the back of trunk, it constitutes the trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk proper.
abdomen, nos	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
trunk proper	Subdivision of trunk which is demarcated from the back of trunk by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage, the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines, the external surface of the posterior abdominal wall and from the limbs by the inguinal folds; together with the back of trunk, it constitutes the trunk. Examples: There is only one trunk proper.
anterior part of abdomen	Subdivision of abdomen which is demarcated from the pelvis by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture. Examples: There is only one abdomen proper.
front of abdomen	Subdivision of abdomen which is demarcated from the pelvis by the plane of the superior pelvic aperture. Examples: There is only one abdomen proper.
structure of subregion of abdomen	Any portion of the body that lies within the boundary, either internally or externally, of the abdomen: superior margin, the thorax; inferior margin, the pelvis; lateral margins, the ribs.
structure of abdominopelvic cavity and/or content (body structure)	This structure comprises the space and content within the boundaries of the abdominopelvic cavity but excludes the walls that define and enclose the space. Previously SNOMED CT used the word 'compartment' to describe structures comprising the cavity and content but FMA has used the same word to include cavity, content and wall. As a consequence, the preferred notation is intra-abdominopelvic structure as this more clearly excludes the 'wall' structures. The intra-abdominopelvic structure is bounded by, but excludes the following 'wall' structures: superiorly the thoracic diaphragm; inferiorly the pelvic diaphragm; anteriorly the anterior abdominal wall (including the lateral abdominal wall); and posteriorly the wall of the abdominal proper segment of trunk. The pelvic component consists of the cavity and content of the true pelvis, which is bounded by the pelvic wall. Note, the structures that form the boundaries are excluded.
structure of blood vessel of abdomen (body structure)	This concept describes any blood vessel that is entirely within the abdominopelvic cavity.
lower trunk	Subdivision of trunk which has as its parts the abdomen and the back of abdomen. Examples: There is only one abdominal segment of trunk.
abdominopelvic regions	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
abdominopelvic cross-sectional segment	This cross-sectional segment is bounded superiorly by a virtual horizontal plane at the level of the junction between T8 and T9 (and thus also includes part of the thoracic volume below this level); and inferiorly it extends to the perineum, including the volume of the true and false pelvic cavities and part but not necessarily the entire external genitalia. The volume includes the entire transverse thickness of the body over the longitudinal extent between the superior (upper) and inferior (lower) boundaries including the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The segment relates to the projectional volume as perceived by transmissive or emissive imaging.
abdomen; acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
abdomen (volume)	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
mass;abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
tumor of abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
pain abdo	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
flank; pain	Smärta som utgår från området mellan nedre revbenskanten och höftbenskammen.
diaphragmatic hernia	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
hernia, traumatic diaphragmatic	The type of DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA caused by TRAUMA or injury, usually to the ABDOMEN.
epigastric hernias	Protrusion of abdominal cavity contents or pre-peritoneal fat through the abdominal wall between the umbilicus and the xiphoid process.
femoral hernia	A groin hernia occurring inferior to the inguinal ligament and medial to the FEMORAL VEIN and FEMORAL ARTERY. The femoral hernia sac has a small neck but may enlarge considerably when it enters the subcutaneous tissue of the thigh. It is caused by defects in the ABDOMINAL WALL.
unspecified inguinal hernia nos (disorder)	An abdominal hernia with an external bulge in the GROIN region. It can be classified by the location of herniation. Indirect inguinal hernias occur through the internal inguinal ring. Direct inguinal hernias occur through defects in the ABDOMINAL WALL (transversalis fascia) in Hesselbach's triangle. The former type is commonly seen in children and young adults; the latter in adults.
direct inguinal hernia	A protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents into the inguinal canal through the superficial inguinal ring.
indirect inguinal hernia nos (disorder)	A protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents into the inguinal canal through the deep and superficial inguinal rings.
obturator hernia	A pelvic hernia through the obturator foramen, a large aperture in the hip bone normally covered by a membrane. Obturator hernia can lead to intestinal incarceration and INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION.
abdomen hernia scrotal	The protrusion of abdominal cavity contents into the scrotal sac.
umbilical hernia (disorder)	Protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents through the abdominal wall at the umbilicus.
abdominal hernias wall	A hernia caused by weakness of the anterior ABDOMINAL WALL due to midline defects, previous incisions, or increased intra-abdominal pressure. Ventral hernias include UMBILICAL HERNIA, incisional, epigastric, and spigelian hernias.
coelioscopy	A procedure in which a laparoscope (LAPAROSCOPES) is inserted through a small incision near the navel to examine the abdominal and pelvic organs in the PERITONEAL CAVITY. If appropriate, biopsy or surgery can be performed during laparoscopy.
abdominal x-ray	Radiographic visualization of the body between the thorax and the pelvis, i.e., within the peritoneal cavity.
biliary colic (finding)	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gallbladder region.
umbilical hernia with gangrene	A protrusion of necrotic tissue through the abdominal wall under the skin near the umbilicus.
gangrenous umbilical hernia	A protrusion of necrotic tissue through the abdominal wall under the skin near the umbilicus.
abnormal bowel sounds	An anomaly of the amount or nature of abdominal sounds. Abdominal sounds (bowel sounds) are made by the movement of the intestines as they promote passage of abdominal contents by peristalsis. []
abdominal rigidity	Involuntary tightening of the abdominal musculature that occurs in response to touching the abdomen to avoid pain. Rigidity can occur in the presence of abdominal inflammation and usually involves only the inflamed area. []
abdominal hernia	En utbuktning av bukvävnader genom bukväggen. Två komponenter ingår: en öppning i bukväggen och en bråcksäck bestående av bukhinnan och bukinnehåll.
abdominal cavity hernia nos (disorder)	En utbuktning av bukvävnader genom bukväggen. Två komponenter ingår: en öppning i bukväggen och en bråcksäck bestående av bukhinnan och bukinnehåll.
tumor; abdominal, desmoid	A relatively large mass of unusually firm scarlike connective tissue resulting from active participation of fibroblasts, occurring most frequently in the abdominal muscles of women who have borne children. The fibroblasts infiltrate surrounding muscle and fascia. (Stedman, 25th ed)
fryns syndrome	A rare syndrome inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It is characterized by the presence of diaphragmatic defects, distinctive facial features (hypertelorism, low-set ears, flat nasal bridge, and micrognathia), distal digital hypoplasia, lung hypoplasia, and brain, gastrointestinal, and cardiovascular malformations.
abdominal bruit	An indication that auscultation of the major arteries of the abdomen demonstrates the presence of turbulent vascular sounds.
beevor sign	Weakness of the inferior portion of the rectus abdominal muscle, which is ascertained clinically as follows. When a patient sits up or raises the head from a recumbent position, the umbilicus is displaced toward the head. This is the result of paralysis of the inferior portion of the rectus abdominal muscle, so that the upper fibres predominate pulling upwards the umbilicus. [PMID:2146943]
hypoperistalsis	Reduced or inadequate peristalsis, with resultant slow passage of contents through the digestive tract. [HPO:probinson]
[d]abdominal colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
abdominal	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
hyperactive bowel sounds (physical finding)	Abnormally increased gurgling/rumbling sounds made by the movement of fluid and gas in the intestines. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22767621]
the bowel sounds were diminished	An decreased amount of bowel sounds. [HPO:probinson]
defect, congenital diaphragmatic	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
muscular guarding of abdomen	A voluntary contraction of the abdominal wall musculature to avoid pain. []
[d]groin mass (context-dependent category)	An abnormal growth in the groin.
abdominal abscess	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abdomens	That portion of the body that lies between the THORAX and the PELVIS.
morgagni hernia	An anterior retrosternal or parasternal hernia that can result in the herniation of liver or intestines into the chest cavity. []
congenital posterolateral diaphragmatic hernia (disorder)	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
infantile colic	Consistent pattern of crying in a healthy infant between 3 weeks and 3 months of age. Often defined as lasting 3 hours a day more than 3 days a week for at least 3 weeks in a row.
fluoroscopy of diaphragm (procedure)	A fluoroscopic medical test done to evaluate the function of the diaphragm. The subject is asked to sniff quickly and the movement of the diaphragm is monitored with a fluoroscope. It is a quick and easy real-time assessment of diaphragmatic motor function.
abdominal exercises (procedure)	Facilitating exercise of a client's abdominal muscles for therapeutic effect(s) (for example, to prevent lower back injury). Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
absent abdominal reflex (finding)	Lack of contraction of abdominal muscles in the quadrant of the abdomen that is stimulated by scraping the skin tangential to or toward the umbilicus. [PMID:12531937, PMID:24785227]
abdominal exam	An assessment of the abdomen including the organs within the abdominal cavity.
abdominal trauma	General or unspecified injuries involving organs in the abdominal cavity.
infection abdominal	Infection within the PERITONEAL CAVITY. A frequent cause is an ANASTOMOTIC LEAK following surgery.
abdomen feels bloated	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
bloating nos	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
hernia of abdominal wall	The presence of a hernia in the abdominal wall. [HPO:probinson]
computed tomography of abdomen without contrast	Computed tomography of the abdomen without the use of a contrast agent.
mri of abdomen without and with contrast (procedure)	Magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen with and without the use of a contrast agent to enhance the image.
disruption of cesarean section wound	Asymptomatic separation of the uterine wall, usually at the site of a prior uterine scar, that does not include the overlying serosa.
magnetic resonance imaging of abdomen without contrast (procedure)	Magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen without the use of a contrast agent.
diaphragmatic defect, limb deficiency, skull defect syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of classical diaphragmatic hernia (Bochdalek type), severe lung hypoplasia and variable associated malformations. It has been reported only once in four successive fetuses (two females and two males) born to a nonconsanguineous couple. The spectrum of malformations is wide and includes omphalocele (one case), severe limb hypoplasia (two cases), syndactyly of the toes (two cases), extra spleen (one case) and an ossification defect of the skull (one case).
spigelian hernia with cryptorchidism syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of ventral, unilateral or bilateral protrusion of extraperitoneal fat, peritoneum and/or intra-abdominal organs through a defect in the spigelian fascia (spigelian hernia), associated with ipsilateral or bilateral undescended testis (usually found within or just beneath the hernial sac) in male neonates. The gubernaculum and/or inguinal canal may be absent.
marfanoid habitus, inguinal hernia, advanced bone age syndrome (disorder)	A very rare developmental defect with connective tissue involvement disorder that has characteristics of tall stature, inguinal hernia, facial dysmorphism (including a long, triangular face, prominent forehead, telecanthus, downslanting palpebral fissures, bilateral ptosis, everted lower eyelids, large ears, long nose, full, everted vermilions, narrow and high arched palate, dental crowding), and radiologic evidence of advanced bone age. Additional manifestations include hyperextensible joints, long digits, mild muscle weakness, myopia, and foot deformities (such as hallux valgus, talipes equinovarus).
pseudo meigs syndrome (disorder)	A rare neoplastic disease characterised by the presence of a benign or malignant, pelvic or abdominal tumour (other than ovarian fibroma or fibroma-like and localised outside of the ovaries, fallopian tubes, and broad ligaments) associated with hydrothorax and ascites that resolve after tumour resection. Patients usually present with dyspnoea, pelvic mass with or without a tender, distended abdomen and/or weight loss.
set of abdominal regions	Any portion of the body that lies within the boundary, either internally or externally, of the abdomen: superior margin, the thorax; inferior margin, the pelvis; lateral margins, the ribs.
intra-abdominopelvic structure	This structure comprises the space and content within the boundaries of the abdominopelvic cavity but excludes the walls that define and enclose the space. Previously SNOMED CT used the word 'compartment' to describe structures comprising the cavity and content but FMA has used the same word to include cavity, content and wall. As a consequence, the preferred notation is intra-abdominopelvic structure as this more clearly excludes the 'wall' structures. The intra-abdominopelvic structure is bounded by, but excludes the following 'wall' structures: superiorly the thoracic diaphragm; inferiorly the pelvic diaphragm; anteriorly the anterior abdominal wall (including the lateral abdominal wall); and posteriorly the wall of the abdominal proper segment of trunk. The pelvic component consists of the cavity and content of the true pelvis, which is bounded by the pelvic wall. Note, the structures that form the boundaries are excluded.
abdominopelvic segment of trunk	Subdivision of trunk which has as its parts the abdomen and the back of abdomen. Examples: There is only one abdominal segment of trunk.
structure of abdominopelvic cross-sectional segment of trunk (body structure)	This cross-sectional segment is bounded superiorly by a virtual horizontal plane at the level of the junction between T8 and T9 (and thus also includes part of the thoracic volume below this level); and inferiorly it extends to the perineum, including the volume of the true and false pelvic cavities and part but not necessarily the entire external genitalia. The volume includes the entire transverse thickness of the body over the longitudinal extent between the superior (upper) and inferior (lower) boundaries including the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The segment relates to the projectional volume as perceived by transmissive or emissive imaging.
acute abdomen	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
abdominal lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
neoplasms, abdominal	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
gut pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
flank pain	Smärta som utgår från området mellan nedre revbenskanten och höftbenskammen.
traumatic diaphragmatic hernia	The type of DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA caused by TRAUMA or injury, usually to the ABDOMEN.
epigastric hernia	Protrusion of abdominal cavity contents or pre-peritoneal fat through the abdominal wall between the umbilicus and the xiphoid process.
unspecified femoral hernia (disorder)	A groin hernia occurring inferior to the inguinal ligament and medial to the FEMORAL VEIN and FEMORAL ARTERY. The femoral hernia sac has a small neck but may enlarge considerably when it enters the subcutaneous tissue of the thigh. It is caused by defects in the ABDOMINAL WALL.
hernias, inguinal	An abdominal hernia with an external bulge in the GROIN region. It can be classified by the location of herniation. Indirect inguinal hernias occur through the internal inguinal ring. Direct inguinal hernias occur through defects in the ABDOMINAL WALL (transversalis fascia) in Hesselbach's triangle. The former type is commonly seen in children and young adults; the latter in adults.
hernia, direct inguinal	A protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents into the inguinal canal through the superficial inguinal ring.
oblique hernia	A protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents into the inguinal canal through the deep and superficial inguinal rings.
obturator hernia (diagnosis)	A pelvic hernia through the obturator foramen, a large aperture in the hip bone normally covered by a membrane. Obturator hernia can lead to intestinal incarceration and INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION.
scrotal hernia (physical finding)	The protrusion of abdominal cavity contents into the scrotal sac.
umbilical hernia	Protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents through the abdominal wall at the umbilicus.
ventral hernia (disorder) [ambiguous]	A hernia caused by weakness of the anterior ABDOMINAL WALL due to midline defects, previous incisions, or increased intra-abdominal pressure. Ventral hernias include UMBILICAL HERNIA, incisional, epigastric, and spigelian hernias.
peritoneoscopy	A procedure in which a laparoscope (LAPAROSCOPES) is inserted through a small incision near the navel to examine the abdominal and pelvic organs in the PERITONEAL CAVITY. If appropriate, biopsy or surgery can be performed during laparoscopy.
diagnostic radiography of abdomen (procedure)	Radiographic visualization of the body between the thorax and the pelvis, i.e., within the peritoneal cavity.
gallbladder pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gallbladder region.
umbilical hernia with gangrene [dup] (disorder)	A protrusion of necrotic tissue through the abdominal wall under the skin near the umbilicus.
bowel sounds abnormal	An anomaly of the amount or nature of abdominal sounds. Abdominal sounds (bowel sounds) are made by the movement of the intestines as they promote passage of abdominal contents by peristalsis. []
[d]abdominal rigidity	Involuntary tightening of the abdominal musculature that occurs in response to touching the abdomen to avoid pain. Rigidity can occur in the presence of abdominal inflammation and usually involves only the inflamed area. []
hernia of abdominal cavity	En utbuktning av bukvävnader genom bukväggen. Två komponenter ingår: en öppning i bukväggen och en bråcksäck bestående av bukhinnan och bukinnehåll.
hernia, abdominal	En utbuktning av bukvävnader genom bukväggen. Två komponenter ingår: en öppning i bukväggen och en bråcksäck bestående av bukhinnan och bukinnehåll.
abdominal desmoid	A relatively large mass of unusually firm scarlike connective tissue resulting from active participation of fibroblasts, occurring most frequently in the abdominal muscles of women who have borne children. The fibroblasts infiltrate surrounding muscle and fascia. (Stedman, 25th ed)
abdominal bruit present	An indication that auscultation of the major arteries of the abdomen demonstrates the presence of turbulent vascular sounds.
beevor's sign	Weakness of the inferior portion of the rectus abdominal muscle, which is ascertained clinically as follows. When a patient sits up or raises the head from a recumbent position, the umbilicus is displaced toward the head. This is the result of paralysis of the inferior portion of the rectus abdominal muscle, so that the upper fibres predominate pulling upwards the umbilicus. [PMID:2146943]
colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
bowel sounds hyperactive	Abnormally increased gurgling/rumbling sounds made by the movement of fluid and gas in the intestines. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22767621]
unilateral agenesis of diaphragm	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
finding of abdominal guarding	A voluntary contraction of the abdominal wall musculature to avoid pain. []
[d]groin mass (situation)	An abnormal growth in the groin.
abscesses, intra-abdominal	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
hernia through foramen of bochdalek	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
fluoroscopy of diaphragm	A fluoroscopic medical test done to evaluate the function of the diaphragm. The subject is asked to sniff quickly and the movement of the diaphragm is monitored with a fluoroscope. It is a quick and easy real-time assessment of diaphragmatic motor function.
abdominal exercises	Facilitating exercise of a client's abdominal muscles for therapeutic effect(s) (for example, to prevent lower back injury). Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
abdominal reflex absent	Lack of contraction of abdominal muscles in the quadrant of the abdomen that is stimulated by scraping the skin tangential to or toward the umbilicus. [PMID:12531937, PMID:24785227]
examination of abdomen	An assessment of the abdomen including the organs within the abdominal cavity.
injury of abdomen (disorder)	General or unspecified injuries involving organs in the abdominal cavity.
abdominal infection	Infection within the PERITONEAL CAVITY. A frequent cause is an ANASTOMOTIC LEAK following surgery.
abdominal bloating	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
tympanites	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
hernia abdominal wall	The presence of a hernia in the abdominal wall. [HPO:probinson]
cesarean wound disruption	Asymptomatic separation of the uterine wall, usually at the site of a prior uterine scar, that does not include the overlying serosa.
diaphragmatic defect, limb deficiency, skull defect syndrome	Syndrome with the association of classical diaphragmatic hernia (Bochdalek type), severe lung hypoplasia and variable associated malformations. It has been reported only once in four successive fetuses (two females and two males) born to a nonconsanguineous couple. The spectrum of malformations is wide and includes omphalocele (one case), severe limb hypoplasia (two cases), syndactyly of the toes (two cases), extra spleen (one case) and an ossification defect of the skull (one case).
spigelian hernia with cryptorchidism syndrome (disorder)	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of ventral, unilateral or bilateral protrusion of extraperitoneal fat, peritoneum and/or intra-abdominal organs through a defect in the spigelian fascia (spigelian hernia), associated with ipsilateral or bilateral undescended testis (usually found within or just beneath the hernial sac) in male neonates. The gubernaculum and/or inguinal canal may be absent.
marfanoid habitus, inguinal hernia, advanced bone age syndrome	A very rare developmental defect with connective tissue involvement disorder that has characteristics of tall stature, inguinal hernia, facial dysmorphism (including a long, triangular face, prominent forehead, telecanthus, downslanting palpebral fissures, bilateral ptosis, everted lower eyelids, large ears, long nose, full, everted vermilions, narrow and high arched palate, dental crowding), and radiologic evidence of advanced bone age. Additional manifestations include hyperextensible joints, long digits, mild muscle weakness, myopia, and foot deformities (such as hallux valgus, talipes equinovarus).
bisacodyl	A diphenylmethane stimulant laxative used for the treatment of CONSTIPATION and for bowel evacuation. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p871)
abdomen, acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
casanthranol	Koncentrovaná směs anthranolových glykosidů získaná z cascara sagrada (kůra krušiny olšové, též řešetláku Purshova).
pain; abdomen, general, acute abdomen	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute pancreatitis (smq)	Drug-induced pancreatitis is usually an acute condition. If clinically suspected, it should always be confirmed by biochemical investigations - Definition of acute pancreatitis: o An inflammatory disease of the pancreas characterized by upper abdominal pain and vomiting; in severe cases - abdominal guarding, rigidity, rebound tenderness and diminution or loss of bowel sounds o Almost always accompanied by increased pancreatic enzymes - amylase and lipase - in the blood and urine o Other signs/findings are icterus, increased alkaline phosphatase and/or bilirubin, ileus, ascites, hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia and leukocytosis o Cullen's sign is sometimes associated with severe necrotizing pancreatitis - Severe attacks may lead to shock with renal and pulmonary insufficiency, which may be fatal.
[d]acute abdomen	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute abdomens	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
abdomen - acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute abdominal pain syndrome	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
abd. pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
syndrome; acute abdominal	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
symptom	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
surgical abdomen	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
symptom (finding)	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
abdominal syndrome acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute abdominal pain syndrome, nos	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute abdomen (diagnosis)	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
syndrome abdominal acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute; abdomen	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
[d]acute abdomen (situation)	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
syndrome; abdominal, acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
muscle rigidity	Continuous involuntary sustained muscle contraction which is often a manifestation of BASAL GANGLIA DISEASES. When an affected muscle is passively stretched, the degree of resistance remains constant regardless of the rate at which the muscle is stretched. This feature helps to distinguish rigidity from MUSCLE SPASTICITY. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p73)
pain nos	An unpleasant sensation induced by noxious stimuli which are detected by NERVE ENDINGS of NOCICEPTIVE NEURONS.
acute abdominal pain	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
abdomens, acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute abdomen, nos	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
acute abdominal syndrome	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
pain, abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
rigor	Continuous involuntary sustained muscle contraction which is often a manifestation of BASAL GANGLIA DISEASES. When an affected muscle is passively stretched, the degree of resistance remains constant regardless of the rate at which the muscle is stretched. This feature helps to distinguish rigidity from MUSCLE SPASTICITY. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p73)
pain	An unpleasant sensation induced by noxious stimuli which are detected by NERVE ENDINGS of NOCICEPTIVE NEURONS.
abdominal; syndrome, acute	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
abdominal cramps	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
retroperitoneal fibrosis (smq)	Retroperitoneal fibrosis (RPF; also known as Ormonds' disease) is a rare disorder that is idiopathic in most cases (68%). - Evidence suggests autoimmunity. o Response to ceroid leaking from arteries thinned by atheromatous plaque - Many diverse causes for the 32% non-idiopathic cases o Drugs: Methysergide, ergotamine, some beta-adrenergic blocking agents, hydralazine, and methyldopa o Other associations (immune-mediated): E.g., primary biliary cirrhosis, systemic lupus erythematosus o Malignant form (poor prognosis): Occurs in response to metastatic tumor cells in the retroperitoneum o Other implicated causes: Abdominal aortic aneurysm, ureteric injury, infection, retroperitoneal malignancy, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy - Characterized by extensive deposition of fibrous tissue in retroperitoneal space compressing ureters bile ducts, blood vessels, and other structures - Symptoms generally vague; clinical picture nonspecific o Radiologic and other imaging modalities needed to confirm diagnosis - Insidious symptomatology: o Flank pain, back pain, lower abdomen pain, malaise, anorexia, weight loss, pyrexia, nausea, vomiting, lower extremity edema and/or thrombophlebitis, and symptoms of arterial compromise of abdomen or lower extremities (e.g., intermittent claudication)
griping abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
gastrointestinal nonspecific symptoms and therapeutic procedures (smq)	Constructed around symptoms frequently attributed to drugs, (e.g., nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, diarrhea and constipation). Applies to gastrointestinal tract from esophagus to rectum. For this SMQ, "nonspecific" means conditions are possible manifestations of multiple diseases. Included: Any non-specific functional condition of the whole gastrointestinal tract; non-specific inflammatory manifestations of the whole gastrointestinal tract; non-specific dysfunctional manifestations of the whole gastrointestinal tract; disorders relative to mucosal erosions; terms from SOC Investigations; terms from SOC Surgical and medical procedures. Excluded: Any dysfunction or inflammation in oropharyngeal cavity; inflammatory or dysfunctional conditions which are independent, well defined nosologic entities (e.g., PT Crohn's disease and PT Colitis ulcerative); infective gastroenteritis. SMQ Gastrointestinal nonspecific symptoms and therapeutic procedures is for terms frequently associated with terms in SMQ Gastrointestinal nonspecific dysfunction and-or SMQ Gastrointestinal nonspecific inflammation indistinctly. Includes terms for therapeutic procedures
crampy abdominal pain	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdominal cramping	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
[d]abdominal cramps	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdomen; cramp(s)	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
[d]abdominal cramps (context-dependent category)	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdominal cramp	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
cramp(s); abdomen	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
stomach cramps	An involuntary muscular contraction in the stomach. Often, this cramp is spasmodic and can be uncomfortable.
symptoms	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
stomach cramp	An involuntary muscular contraction in the stomach. Often, this cramp is spasmodic and can be uncomfortable.
cramps abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdomen pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
cramp abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
[d]abdominal pain (situation)	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
[d]abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal crampy pains	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
pains, abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal pain, unspecified site	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
cramp(s);abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
[d]abdominal cramps (situation)	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdominalgia	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
bellyache	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
cramps, abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
cramp, abdominal	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdo pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal pains	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
unspecified abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
pain in stomach	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
griping abdomen	A type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity. []
abdominal pain (symptom)	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
pain;abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
[d]abdominal pain nos (situation)	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
ap - abdominal pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal; pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
alteration in nutrition: less than body requirements.	Intake of nutrients insufficient to meet metabolic needs.
dysfunctional gastrointestinal motility	Increased, decreased, ineffective, or lack of peristaltic activity within the gastrointestinal system.
abdominal pain nos	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
abdominal pain (finding)	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
[d]abdominal pain nos (context-dependent category)	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
cramps	A sustained and usually painful contraction of muscle fibers. This may occur as an isolated phenomenon or as a manifestation of an underlying disease process (e.g., UREMIA; HYPOTHYROIDISM; MOTOR NEURON DISEASE; etc.). (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1398)
nervous system	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
nervous system function	Egenskaper och processer typiska för nervsystemet som helhet eller med avseende på det perifera eller centrala nervsystemet.
skeletal muscle tissue	A subtype of striated muscle, attached by TENDONS to the SKELETON. Skeletal muscles are innervated and their movement can be consciously controlled. They are also called voluntary muscles.
stomach structure	An area of the stomach, not otherwise specified.
muscle cramp, nos	A sustained and usually painful contraction of muscle fibers. This may occur as an isolated phenomenon or as a manifestation of an underlying disease process (e.g., UREMIA; HYPOTHYROIDISM; MOTOR NEURON DISEASE; etc.). (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1398)
fda center for devices and radiological health terminology	Terminology used in individual case reports for voluntary and mandatory reporting of adverse reactions or adverse events during both pre and post approval periods of medical device development and usage.
health effect - clinical code	Terms/codes for describing the clinical signs and symptoms or conditions of the affected person appearing as a result of the medical device adverse event/incident used by the CDRH.
distension;abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdomen enlargement	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
abdominal distention	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
enlargement abdomen	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
bloated feeling	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
swelling; abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
belly bloating	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal bloating (finding)	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdominal distension	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
bloating	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdomen distended	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
distention	The condition of being stretched beyond normal dimensions.
abdominal swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal swellings	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
enlarged abdomen	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
feeling bloated	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
bloating symptom	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
swelling of abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal swelling, nos	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
[d]abdominal swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
distension nos	The condition of being stretched beyond normal dimensions.
swelling of the abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
distended abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
swollen;abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
[d]abdominal swelling (situation)	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal distension (finding)	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
swelling abd	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
syndrome, donohue	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome of extreme insulin resistance due to mutations in the binding domain of INSULIN RECEPTOR. Clinical features include severe intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction, characteristic dysmorphic FACIES; HIRSUTISM; VIRILIZATION; multiple endocrine abnormalities, and early death.
visceral myopathy, familial, with external ophthalmoplegia	An extremely rare autosomal recessively inherited neuromuscular disease characterized by ocular manifestations such as ptosis and diplopia followed by chronic diarrhea, malnutrition and intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
spondylocostal dysostosis with anal atresia and genitourinary malformation syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of spondylocostal dysostosis with anal and genitourinary malformations (anal atresia and agenesis of external and internal genitalia). To date, only four cases have been described in the literature.
mowat-wilson syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the ZEB2 gene. It is characterized by mental retardation, and a distinctive facial appearance (wide set eyes, uplifted earlobes, broad nasal bridge, prominent chin, and a smiling expression). The majority of patients have Hirschsprung disease (colonic enlargement and constipation due to intestinal blockage).
chondrogenesis imperfecta	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL2A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(II) chain. It is the most severe of a spectrum of disorders caused by mutations in the COL2A1 gene, characterized by short limbs, small chest and lungs, and abnormal ossification of the spine and pelvis. Often, infants die at birth or shortly thereafter.
semd, shohat type	Disease with characteristics of severely disproportionate short stature, short limbs, small chest, short neck, thin lips, severe lumbar lordosis, marked genu varum, joint laxity, distended abdomen, mild hepatomegaly and splenomegaly. The syndrome has been described in three members of a Jewish family of Iraqi origin and one Mexican boy. The long bone changes in adolescence show general metaphyseal irregularities and significant epiphyseal ossification delay. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
puerto rican infant hypotonia syndrome	This syndrome is characterized principally by non-progressive central hypotonia, chronic constipation, severe psychomotor retardation, abnormal dermatoglyphics, dysharmonic skeletal maturation and disproportionate muscle fibers. Seizures or an abnormal electroencephalograph were also reported. To date, the syndrome has been reported in three unrelated Puerto Rican boys.
swelling abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
fanconi-bickel syndrome	Glycogen storage disease caused by mutation(s) in the SLC2A2 gene, encoding solute carrier family 2, facilitated glucose transporter member 2. It is characterized by marked proximal renal tubular dysfunction and hepatorenal glycogen accumulation.
enlarging abdomen	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
[d]abdominal swelling (context-dependent category)	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
[d]bloating (context-dependent category)	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
swelling; intra-abdominal	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdomen distention	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
swollen abdomen	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
[d]bloating (situation)	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdo. bloating	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
distension	The condition of being stretched beyond normal dimensions.
intra-abdominal; swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal mass (disorder) [ambiguous]	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
protuberant abdomen	A thrusting or bulging out of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdomen; symptoms	A subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen. []
abdomen; swelling	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal swelling (disorder)	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
constipation	Infrequent or difficult evacuation of FECES. These symptoms are associated with a variety of causes, including low DIETARY FIBER intake, emotional or nervous disturbances, systemic and structural disorders, drug-induced aggravation, and infections.
chronic functional constipation	Infrequent or difficult evacuation of feces, which has been present for at least 3 of the prior 12 months.
cdg ih	A form of congenital disorders of N-linked glycosylation that is characterized by gastrointestinal symptoms (diarrhea, vomiting, feeding problems with failure to thrive, protein-losing enteropathy), edema and ascites (including hydrops fetalis), hepatomegaly, renal tubulopathy, coagulation anomalies due to thrombocytopenia, brain involvement (psychomotor delay, seizures, ataxia), facial dysmorphism (low-set ears and retrognathia), pes equinovarus, and muscular hypotonia. Cataracts may also be observed. Prognosis is usually poor. The disease is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the gene ALG8 (11q14.1), resulting in a block in the initial step of protein glycosylation.
meteorism	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
gastrointestinal system	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the gastrointestinal system. (NCI)
digestive system finding (finding)	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the gastrointestinal system. (NCI)
[d]abdominal mass (situation)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
systema digestorium	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
swell	Enlargement; expansion in size; sign of inflammation
finding of swelling	Enlargement; expansion in size; sign of inflammation
procedure	In medicine, a treatment or action taken to prevent or treat disease, or improve health in other ways.
bloating feeling	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
[d]bloating	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdomen feels bloated (finding)	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
bloating symptom (finding)	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
bloated abdomen	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
cdrh terminology	Terminology used in individual case reports for voluntary and mandatory reporting of adverse reactions or adverse events during both pre and post approval periods of medical device development and usage.
pediatric adverse events terminology	Terminology developed by the National Children's Study and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of adverse events in the pediatric population.
nichd terminology	Core library of terms associated with pediatrics, representing information related to child health and development from pre-birth through 21 years of age; contributed by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.
cdrh health effect - clinical code terminology	Terms/codes for describing the clinical signs and symptoms or conditions of the affected person appearing as a result of the medical device adverse event/incident used by the CDRH.
[d]abdominal lump (context-dependent category)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
swollen abdomen (finding)	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
[d]abdominal mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal mass (disorder)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
digestive system finding	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the gastrointestinal system. (NCI)
gastrointestinal system finding	Symptoms, physical examination results, and/or laboratory test results related to the gastrointestinal system. (NCI)
digestive system	A group of organs stretching from the MOUTH to the ANUS, serving to breakdown foods, assimilate nutrients, and eliminate waste. In humans, the digestive system includes the GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the accessory glands (LIVER; BILIARY TRACT; PANCREAS).
swellings	Enlargement; expansion in size; sign of inflammation
swelling	Enlargement; expansion in size; sign of inflammation
swelling (finding)	Enlargement; expansion in size; sign of inflammation
interventiondescription	In medicine, a treatment or action taken to prevent or treat disease, or improve health in other ways.
abdomen enlarged	Increasing girth of the mid section of an individual.
bloating feelings	Sensation of distension of the stomach or abdomen.
bloat	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdominal distention (physical finding)	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
gassiness	A swelling or feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Bloating is usually the result of gas in the intestines and can be caused by many things, including overeating, lactose intolerance, and constipation. Bloating can also be a side effect of cancer or cancer treatment.
abdominal swelling (symptom)	Distention of the abdomen. [HPO:probinson]
abdomen lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
mass; intra-abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal mass, nos	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal mass nos	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal lump, nos	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abnormal abdomen morphology	A structural abnormality of the abdomen ('belly'), that is, the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax. [HPO:probinson]
abdominal; mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
abdominal tumor	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
polyp nos of cervix	Abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane of the endocervix. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21270291]
polyp of cervix uteri	Abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane of the endocervix. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21270291]
abdomen; upset, mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
intestinal polyp	Discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the INTESTINE. A polyp is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk, pedunculus, or by a broad base.
abdominal mass (finding)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
intestinal polyps	Discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the INTESTINE. A polyp is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk, pedunculus, or by a broad base.
[d]abdominal lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
appendicular mucocele	Accumulation of mucus within the appendix.
lump abdomen	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
cyst, ovarian	General term for CYSTS and cystic diseases of the OVARY.
[d]abdominal lump (situation)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
pancreas cyst	A true cyst of the PANCREAS, distinguished from the much more common PANCREATIC PSEUDOCYST by possessing a lining of mucous EPITHELIUM. Pancreatic cysts are categorized as congenital, retention, neoplastic, parasitic, enterogenous, or dermoid. Congenital cysts occur more frequently as solitary cysts but may be multiple. Retention cysts are gross enlargements of PANCREATIC DUCTS secondary to ductal obstruction. (From Bockus Gastroenterology, 4th ed, p4145)
pancreas pseudocyst	Cyst-like space not lined by EPITHELIUM and contained within the PANCREAS. Pancreatic pseudocysts account for most of the cystic collections in the pancreas and are often associated with chronic PANCREATITIS.
mass in abdomen	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
pancreatic pseudocyst	Cyst-like space not lined by EPITHELIUM and contained within the PANCREAS. Pancreatic pseudocysts account for most of the cystic collections in the pancreas and are often associated with chronic PANCREATITIS.
intestinalis, pneumatosis cystoides	A condition characterized by the presence of multiple gas-filled cysts in the intestinal wall, the submucosa and/or subserosa of the INTESTINE. The majority of the cysts are found in the JEJUNUM and the ILEUM.
xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis (disorder)	A chronic inflammatory condition of the KIDNEY resulting in diffuse renal destruction, a grossly enlarged and nonfunctioning kidney associated with NEPHROLITHIASIS and KIDNEY STONES.
upset; abdomen (mass)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
placental polyp	A polyp in the uterine cavity that is formed by placenta remnants.
hemangioma intra-abdominal structures	A hemangioma arising from organs within the abdominal cavity.
hemangioma of intra-abdominal structure	A hemangioma arising from organs within the abdominal cavity.
mass abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
intrauterine polyps	A benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity (endometrial polyp) or the endocervix (endocervical polyp). It may occasionally recur following complete resection.
polyp endometrium	A benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity (endometrial polyp) or the endocervix (endocervical polyp). It may occasionally recur following complete resection.
abdomen mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
polyp, vaginal, benign	A benign polypoid lesion arising from the vaginal wall.
lump; intra-abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
gastric polyposis (diagnosis)	A polyp that arises from the stomach. This category includes neoplastic polyps (intestinal-type adenomatous polyps, gastric-type adenomas, and fundic gland polyps), and non-neoplastic polyps (hyperplastic polyps and hamartomatous polyps).
polyps of the stomach	A polyp that arises from the stomach. This category includes neoplastic polyps (intestinal-type adenomatous polyps, gastric-type adenomas, and fundic gland polyps), and non-neoplastic polyps (hyperplastic polyps and hamartomatous polyps).
groin lump	An abnormal growth in the groin.
liver mass	A space-occupying pathologic process that affects the liver parenchyma.
hepatic mass	A space-occupying pathologic process that affects the liver parenchyma.
ovarian mass (___ cm)	An abnormal growth in the ovary.
vaginal cyst	A cystic lesion located in the vagina.
abdominal abscess nos	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abdomen masses	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
gallbladder polyp	A polypoid tumor that arises from the gallbladder and projects into the lumen. This category includes adenomas and hyperplastic polyps.
polyp of gallbladder (disorder)	A polypoid tumor that arises from the gallbladder and projects into the lumen. This category includes adenomas and hyperplastic polyps.
renal mass	An abnormal growth in the kidney.
anal polyp	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic polypoid lesion that arises from the anus. Representative examples include the fibroepithelial polyp and squamous papilloma.
cyst; liver	A cystic lesion located in the liver.
simple cyst of kidney	A homogenous cyst located in the kidney.
urethral cyst	A cystic lesion located in the urethra.
fallopian tube cyst	A fluid filled sac located in the Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson]
cysts splenic	A closed sac located in the spleen. [HPO:probinson, PMID:24794024]
carcinoma of colon, stage ii (finding)	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria or into non-peritonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues. T4: Tumor directly invades other organs or structures, and/or perforates visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
mass; abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
stage iii colon cancer ajcc v6	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1, M0); IIIB (T3-T4, N1, M0); IIIC (Any T, N2, M0). N1: Metastasis in 1 to 3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in 4 or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
lump abdominal	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
hamartoma of stomach	A non-neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma overgrowth and cystic formations.
intra-abdominal; mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
gastric hamartomatous polyp	A non-neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma overgrowth and cystic formations.
adrenal mass (disorder)	An abnormal growth in the adrenal gland.
ureteral polyps	A growth protruding from the mucous membrane of the ureter. Ureteral polyps can be attached to the ureter by a broad base or a thin stalk. [NCIT:C4530]
abdominal masses	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
lump pelvic	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the pelvic region. []
biliary cyst	A cystic dilatation that occurs in any part of the biliary tree.
lumps stomach	An abnormal growth located in the stomach.
stomach mass	An abnormal growth located in the stomach.
prostate mass	A lump detected in the prostate. In this context, mass is a general term for a lump or growth that may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. []
prostatic mass	A lump detected in the prostate. In this context, mass is a general term for a lump or growth that may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. []
condylomata acuminata of cervix	A benign neoplasm that arises from the cervix. It is associated with human papillomavirus infection and is characterized by the presence of papillary structures with fibrovascular cores. The papillary structures are covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytosis is usually present.
abdomen lumps	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
cervical condyloma acuminatum	A benign neoplasm that arises from the cervix. It is associated with human papillomavirus infection and is characterized by the presence of papillary structures with fibrovascular cores. The papillary structures are covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytosis is usually present.
dukes d carcinoma of the colon	Stage IV includes: (Any T, Any N, M1). M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
intestinal mass	An abnormal growth in the small or large intestine.
mass of intestine	An abnormal growth in the small or large intestine.
condyloma acuminata of vagina (diagnosis)	A human papillomavirus-related neoplasm that arises from the vagina. It is characterized by papillomatosis, acanthotic changes, and hyperkeratosis. Koilocytosis is usually present.
mass	In medicine, a lump in the body. It may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. A mass may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer).
pelvic mass	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the pelvic region. []
[d]pelvic mass (situation)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the pelvic region. []
swelling pelvic	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the pelvic region. []
polyp(s);cervical	Abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane of the endocervix. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21270291]
polyp, intestinal	Discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the INTESTINE. A polyp is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk, pedunculus, or by a broad base.
polyp of intestine	Discrete abnormal tissue masses that protrude into the lumen of the INTESTINE. A polyp is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk, pedunculus, or by a broad base.
abdominal lumps	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
mucocele appendix	Accumulation of mucus within the appendix.
ovarian cyst, nos	General term for CYSTS and cystic diseases of the OVARY.
pseudocyst, pancreatic	Cyst-like space not lined by EPITHELIUM and contained within the PANCREAS. Pancreatic pseudocysts account for most of the cystic collections in the pancreas and are often associated with chronic PANCREATITIS.
pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis	A condition characterized by the presence of multiple gas-filled cysts in the intestinal wall, the submucosa and/or subserosa of the INTESTINE. The majority of the cysts are found in the JEJUNUM and the ILEUM.
xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis	A chronic inflammatory condition of the KIDNEY resulting in diffuse renal destruction, a grossly enlarged and nonfunctioning kidney associated with NEPHROLITHIASIS and KIDNEY STONES.
placental polyp unspecified	A polyp in the uterine cavity that is formed by placenta remnants.
haemangioma of intra-abdominal structure	A hemangioma arising from organs within the abdominal cavity.
intra-abdominal haemangioma	A hemangioma arising from organs within the abdominal cavity.
polyps endometrial	A benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity (endometrial polyp) or the endocervix (endocervical polyp). It may occasionally recur following complete resection.
uterus polyp	A benign protruding lesion arising either from the endometrial cavity (endometrial polyp) or the endocervix (endocervical polyp). It may occasionally recur following complete resection.
polyp of vagina	A benign polypoid lesion arising from the vaginal wall.
polyp; stomach	A polyp that arises from the stomach. This category includes neoplastic polyps (intestinal-type adenomatous polyps, gastric-type adenomas, and fundic gland polyps), and non-neoplastic polyps (hyperplastic polyps and hamartomatous polyps).
polyps stomach	A polyp that arises from the stomach. This category includes neoplastic polyps (intestinal-type adenomatous polyps, gastric-type adenomas, and fundic gland polyps), and non-neoplastic polyps (hyperplastic polyps and hamartomatous polyps).
mass abdomen	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
groin mass	An abnormal growth in the groin.
mass of ovary	An abnormal growth in the ovary.
cyst vagina	A cystic lesion located in the vagina.
polyps gallbladder	A polypoid tumor that arises from the gallbladder and projects into the lumen. This category includes adenomas and hyperplastic polyps.
gallbladders polyp	A polypoid tumor that arises from the gallbladder and projects into the lumen. This category includes adenomas and hyperplastic polyps.
mass renal	An abnormal growth in the kidney.
liver cysts	A cystic lesion located in the liver.
cyst of kidney	A homogenous cyst located in the kidney.
cyst spleen	A closed sac located in the spleen. [HPO:probinson, PMID:24794024]
stage ii colon cancer	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria or into non-peritonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues. T4: Tumor directly invades other organs or structures, and/or perforates visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
ajcc stage iii colon cancer v6	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1, M0); IIIB (T3-T4, N1, M0); IIIC (Any T, N2, M0). N1: Metastasis in 1 to 3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in 4 or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
gastric hamartoma	A non-neoplastic polyp that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of connective tissue stroma overgrowth and cystic formations.
adrenal mass	An abnormal growth in the adrenal gland.
ureteral polyp	A growth protruding from the mucous membrane of the ureter. Ureteral polyps can be attached to the ureter by a broad base or a thin stalk. [NCIT:C4530]
[d]lump stomach (context-dependent category)	An abnormal growth located in the stomach.
mass of the stomach	An abnormal growth located in the stomach.
mass of prostate	A lump detected in the prostate. In this context, mass is a general term for a lump or growth that may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. []
condyloma acuminata of cervix	A benign neoplasm that arises from the cervix. It is associated with human papillomavirus infection and is characterized by the presence of papillary structures with fibrovascular cores. The papillary structures are covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytosis is usually present.
condylomata acuminata of the cervix uteri	A benign neoplasm that arises from the cervix. It is associated with human papillomavirus infection and is characterized by the presence of papillary structures with fibrovascular cores. The papillary structures are covered with stratified squamous epithelium. Koilocytosis is usually present.
ajcc stage iv colon cancer v6	Stage IV includes: (Any T, Any N, M1). M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
warts genital condyloma acuminata of vagina	A human papillomavirus-related neoplasm that arises from the vagina. It is characterized by papillomatosis, acanthotic changes, and hyperkeratosis. Koilocytosis is usually present.
finding of a mass	In medicine, a lump in the body. It may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. A mass may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer).
mass of stomach	An abnormal growth located in the stomach.
mass of bowel	An abnormal growth in the small or large intestine.
abdominal neoplasm, excluding pancreas neoplasm	A finding of a neoplastic disease in the abdominal cavity, excluding pancreatic neoplastic disease.
nephroblastoma (wilms tumor)	pediatric nephroblastoma originating from embryonic kidney stem cells; usually affects children before the fifth year, but may occur in the fetus or rarely in later life; caused by defects in one or more tumor suppressor genes.
struma ovarii	A rare teratoid tumor of the ovary composed almost entirely of thyroid tissue, with large follicles containing abundant colloid. Occasionally there are symptoms of hyperthyroidism. 5-10% of struma ovarii become malignant, the only absolute criterion for which is the presence of metastasis. (Dorland, 27th ed; Segen, Dictionary of Modern Medicine, 1992)
pediatric embryonal hepatoma	A malignant neoplasm occurring in young children, primarily in the liver, composed of tissue resembling embryonal or fetal hepatic epithelium, or mixed epithelial and mesenchymal tissues. (Stedman, 25th ed)
cyst dermoid ovaries	An cystic ovarian teratoma composed of dermal and epidermal elements and containing tissue components including hair, teeth, bone, thyroid, and others. []
stage i ovarian epithelial cancer	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ovarian cancer stage ii	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
figo stage iii carcinoma of the ovary	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ovarian carcinoma, metastatic	A carcinoma that arises from the ovary and has metastasized to another anatomic site.
recurrent ovarian cancer	The reemergence of ovarian carcinoma after a period of remission.
stage i wilms tumor	The tumor was completely removed by surgery and all of the following are true: (1) cancer was found only in the kidney and did not spread to blood vessels of the kidney; (2) the outer layer of the kidney did not break open; (3) the tumor did not break open; (4) a biopsy of the tumor was not done; and (5) no cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the tumor was removed.
stage ii renal wilms' tumor	Cancer spread out of the kidney to nearby soft tissue or to blood vessels of the kidney and was completely removed by surgery. No cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the cancer was removed.
stage iii wilms tumor	Cancer remains in the abdomen after surgery and at least one of the following is true: (1) cancer has spread to lymph nodes in the abdomen or pelvis (the part of the body between the hips); (2) cancer has spread to or through the surface of the peritoneum (the layer of tissue that lines the abdominal cavity and covers most organs in the abdomen); (3) a biopsy of the tumor was done during surgery to remove it; (4) the tumor was removed in more than one piece.
wilms' tumor, stage iv	Cancer has spread through the blood to organs such as the lungs, liver, bone, or brain, or to lymph nodes outside of the abdomen and pelvis (the part of the body between the hips).
stage v kidney wilms tumor	Cancer cells are found in both kidneys when the disease is first diagnosed. Each kidney is staged separately as I, II, III, or IV.
relapsed renal wilms' tumor	The reemergence of Wilms tumor of the kidney after a period of remission.
mixed epithelial carcinoma of ovary	A malignant mixed epithelial neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed predominantly of serous and endocervical-type mucinous epithelium.
epithelial predominant wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the epithelial component. The epithelial cells may form papillary and tubular patterns and pseudorosettes.
blastema predominant kidney adenosarcoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the blastema component.
stromal predominant renal wilms' tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the mesenchymal component.
mixed cell type kidney adenosarcoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of blastema, epithelial, and mesenchymal components (triphasic pattern) or a combination of two of them (biphasic pattern).
ovarian cancer, serous cystadenocarcinoma	A malignant glandular cystic epithelial tumor arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of glandular, papillary, or solid structures. Psammoma bodies may be present. In well differentiated cases the malignant epithelial cells resemble the cells of fallopian tube epithelium. In poorly differentiated cases the malignant epithelial cells show anaplastic features. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7978" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7978" NCI Thesaurus)
mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of ovary	An invasive cystic adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin. The malignant cells invade the ovarian stroma and the cystic spaces contain mucoid material. In a minority of cases both ovaries are involved by the tumor. The prognosis for stage I tumors is excellent. Patients with metastases usually have a poor prognosis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C4026" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C4026" NCI Thesaurus)
ovarian clear cell cystadenocarcinoma	A malignant glandular epithelial tumor arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of clear and hobnail cells and cystic structures. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7980" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7980" NCI Thesaurus)
relapsed ovarian germ cell neoplasm	The reemergence of ovarian germ cell tumor after a period of remission.
teratoma of ovary	The presence of a teratoma in the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
ovarian monodermal and highly specialized teratoma	A teratoma of the ovary composed exclusively or predominantly of a single type of tissue derived from the ectoderm or endoderm. A representative example is struma ovarii which is a teratoma composed exclusively or predominantly of thyroid tissue. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8113" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8113" NCI Thesaurus)
mixed germ cell neoplasm of the ovary	An ovarian malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components. At least one of the germ cell components is primitive. The most common combination of germ cell elements is dysgerminoma and yolk sac tumor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8114" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8114" NCI Thesaurus)
desmoplastic small round-cell tumor	A rare, aggressive soft tissue sarcoma that primarily affects adolescents and young adults. It is most commonly found in the abdomen.
cystadenoma of bile duct	An epithelial, usually multiloculated neoplasm arising from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It occurs predominantly in females. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, and jaundice. Morphologically, the cystic spaces are lined by columnar epithelium and contain mucinous or serous fluid.
liver neoplasm malignant bile duct cystadenocarcinoma	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component.
brenner tumour, malignant	A malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of an invasive malignant transitional cell component and nests of benign transitional cells in a fibrotic stroma. When the neoplasm is confined to the ovary, the prognosis is good.
malignant struma ovarii	An ovarian mature teratoma characterized by the presence of aberrant thyroid tissue with morphologic changes identical to thyroid carcinoma. Patients may present with abdominal mass and unusual symptoms due to thyrotoxicosis, or with Meigs syndrome (ascites and pleural effusion).
pancreatic cystadenoma	A non-metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas.
endometrioid adenocarcinoma of ovary	An endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from the ovary. It comprises 10% to 25% of all primary ovarian carcinomas. Grossly, endometrioid carcinoma may present as a cystic or solid mass. Microscopically, the tumor greatly resembles the appearance of the ordinary type of endometrial adenocarcinoma. As a group, endometrioid carcinoma has a prognosis twice as good as that of serous or mucinous carcinoma. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7979" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7979" NCI Thesaurus)
ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma	An aggressive carcinoma arising from the ovary. Most patients present with advanced disease. Microscopically, it is characterized by significant cytologic atypia, increased mitotic activity, and necrosis. The prognosis is usually poor.
malignant granulosa cell tumor of ovary (diagnosis)	An aggressive granulosa cell tumor that arises from the ovary. [NCIT:C8403]
immature ovarian teratoma	A malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. It usually affects females in their first two decades of life. It contains variable amounts of immature embryonal tissues. Based on the amount of immature neuroepithelial component, immature teratomas are graded from 1 to 3. The stage and grade of the tumor and the grade of the metastatic tumor are the important factors that predict prognosis. The use of cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy has significantly improved the survival rates of the patients. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8111" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8111" NCI Thesaurus)
embryonal carcinoma, ovarian	An embryonal carcinoma arising from the ovary. Signs and symptoms include the presence of an abdominal mass and abdominal pain. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8108" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8108" NCI Thesaurus)
germ cell dysgerminoma of ovary	A malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. Morphologically, it is identical to seminoma and consists of a monotonous population of germ cells with abundant pale cytoplasm and uniform nuclei. The stroma invariably contains chronic inflammatory cells, mostly T-lymphocytes. It responds to chemotherapy or radiotherapy and the prognosis relates to the tumor stage. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8106" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8106" NCI Thesaurus)
yolk sac tumor of ovary	A usually rapidly growing malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. It usually occurs in children and adolescents. Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain and a large abdominal or pelvic mass. The serum alpha-fetoprotein is almost always elevated preoperatively. Morphologically, there is marked heterogeneity due to numerous patterns of differentiation coexisting in the same tumor. The most common pattern is reticular. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8107" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8107" NCI Thesaurus)
ovarian malignant mixed mesodermal müllerian tumor	A highly aggressive malignant neoplasm arising from the ovary. Morphologically, it is a high grade tumor, composed of carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9192" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9192" NCI Thesaurus)
neuroblastoma of adrenal gland	A neuroblastoma arising from the adrenal gland.
hereditary wilms' tumor (wt1)	Familial embryonal neoplasm derived from nephrogenic blastemal cells. Several lines of differentiation, including blastemal, stromal and epithelial, are usually expressed. Comprises approximately 1% of Wilms tumors. (AFIP fascicle version 2.0 mo011000) Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8496" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8496" NCI Thesaurus)
childhood ovarian germ cell tumor	A germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
unresectable hepatoblastoma	Hepatoblastoma not amenable to surgical removal.
hepatoblastoma resectable	Hepatoblastoma amenable to surgical removal.
relapsed hepatoblastoma	The reemergence of hepatoblastoma after a period of remission.
childhood malignant ovarian germ cell tumor	A malignant germ cell tumor in children arising from the ovary. It includes the dysgerminoma, yolk sac tumor, choriocarcinoma, embryonal carcinoma and immature teratoma.
ovarian adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary. It is the most common type of ovarian carcinoma. It includes the serous adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, clear cell adenocarcinoma, and endometrioid adenocarcinoma.
ovarian cystadenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of cystic structures. It includes the serous cystadenocarcinoma, mucinous cystadenocarcinoma, and clear cell cystadenocarcinoma.
malignant multilocular cystic nephroma	A variant of Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of cystic spaces separated by septa. The septa contain immature epithelial cells, immature stromal cells, and blastema cells. Surgical resection is usually curative.
ovarian monodermal teratoma	A teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of tissues derived exclusively from one embryonic germ cell layer.
adult desmoplastic small round cell tumor	A desmoplastic small round cell tumor occurring in adults.
adult type ovarian granulosa cell tumor	A granulosa cell tumor that affects middle aged or postmenopausal women. Patients may present with uterine bleeding.
adult kidney nephroblastoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in adults.
anaplastic renal wilms' tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of nuclear anaplasia. Anaplasia is defined by the presence of all of the following: multipolar polyploid mitotic figures, marked nuclear enlargement, and hyperchromasia. When anaplasia is diffuse, it is associated with an unfavorable clinical outcome.
pediatric desmoplastic small round cell tumor	A desmoplastic small round cell tumor occurring in children. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C27372" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C27372" NCI Thesaurus)
childhood choriocarcinoma of ovary	A non-gestational choriocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
pediatric ovarian dysgerminoma	A dysgerminoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood embryonal carcinoma of ovary	An embryonal carcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood immature teratoma of ovary	An immature teratoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood ovarian mature teratoma	A mature teratoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
pediatric ovarian teratoma	A mature or immature teratoma that arises from the ovary during childhood.
pediatric ovarian yolk sac tumor	A yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood kidney wilms tumor	A Wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in children.
tumor, clear-cell myomelanocytic	PEComas of the falciform ligament / ligamentum teres.
colon burkitt's lymphoma	A rare Burkitt lymphoma that arises from the colon.
extrahepatic bile duct mcn	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts.
hepatoblastoma with combined fetal and embryonal epithelial differentiation	A hepatoblastoma composed of cells resembling fetal epithelial cells and small round cells resembling blastema cells.
hepatoblastoma with pure fetal epithelial differentiation	A hepatoblastoma composed of small cells resembling the fetal hepatocytes, forming thin trabeculae.
familial ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that has developed in relatives of patients that have a history of ovarian carcinoma.
intrahepatic bile duct cystadenoma	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts.
macrotrabecular hepatoblastoma	A pure fetal or fetal and embryonal epithelial hepatoblastoma characterized by the presence of broad trabeculae.
mature ovarian teratoma	An ovarian teratoma which may be cystic, composed entirely of well differentiated, adult-type tissues, without evidence of fetal-type tissues. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8112" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8112" NCI Thesaurus)
metachronous kidney nephroblastoma	Wilms tumor arising in the remaining kidney following treatment of the original Wilms tumor.
metastatic ovarian small cell carcinoma, hypercalcemic type	A primary small cell carcinoma of the ovary that is associated with hypercalcemia and has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
mixed epithelial and mesenchymal hepatoblastoma	A hepatoblastoma characterized by the presence of fetal and embryonal epithelial components and a mesenchymal component.
intra-abdominal; lump	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
mixed hepatoblastoma with teratoid features	A hepatoblastoma characterized by the presence of mixed epithelial and mesenchymal components and additional tissues such as striated muscle, bone, epithelial tissues, and melanin pigment.
multilocular peritoneal inclusion cyst	A cystic mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum and usually affects young to middle aged females. Grossly, it presents as a large multiloculated tumor mass, usually in the pelvic peritoneum. Histologically it is characterized by the presence of multiple cysts that are lined by one or more layers of mesothelial cells that do not show atypia. Patients usually present with abdominal or pelvic mass and pain. The clinical course is indolent. The tumor may recur, but transformation to diffuse malignant mesothelioma is rare.
neuroblastomas of the adrenal gland and sympathetic nervous system	A common pediatric extracranial tumor arising from neural crest cells. It involves the adrenal medulla and the sympathetic nervous system.
nonanaplastic kidney wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the absence of nuclear anaplasia.
ovarian cystic teratoma	A teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of cystic structures. Representative example is the dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with secondary tumor	An adult-type tumor that has derived from an ovarian dermoid cyst. Representative examples include dermoid cyst with secondary carcinoma, dermoid cyst with secondary sarcoma, and dermoid cyst with pituitary-type tumor.
mucinous adenocarcinoma of ovary	An invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin. There is cellular atypia, increased layering of cells, complexity of glands, and papillary formations.
ovarian non-small-cell type neuroendocrine carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of large malignant cells exhibiting neuroendocrine differentiation. The prognosis is poor.
serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that, in well differentiated tumors, resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or, in poorly differentiated tumors, show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia.
serous surface papillary carcinoma of the ovary	A serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of a papillary architectural pattern.
ovarian solid teratoma	A mature teratoma that arises from the ovary and presents as a large solid mass. It contains multiple cysts that vary in size. Small foci of hemorrhage are also present.
ovarian transitional cell cancer	A carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that resemble malignant urothelial cells. There is no morphologic evidence of a benign or borderline Brenner tumor component present.
stage 1 hepatoblastoma	An internationally developed presurgical anatomic staging system using imaging techniques: Tumor involves only 1 quadrant; 3 adjoining liver quadrants are free of tumor. (from PDQ 2004)
pretext stage 2 hepatoblastoma	An internationally developed presurgical anatomic staging system using imaging techniques: Tumor involves 2 adjoining quadrants; 2 adjoining quadrants are free of tumor. (from PDQ 2004)
[d]abdominal mass (context-dependent category)	An abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen. []
pretext stage 3 hepatoblastoma	An internationally developed presurgical anatomic staging system using imaging techniques: Tumor involves 3 adjoining quadrants or 2 nonadjoining quadrants; 1 quadrant or 2 nonadjoining quadrants are free of tumor. (from PDQ 2004)
stage 4 hepatoblastoma	An internationally developed presurgical anatomic staging system using imaging techniques: Tumor involves all 4 quadrants; there is no quadrant free of tumor. (from PDQ 2004)
serous cystadenocarcinoma of pancreas (disorder)	A very rare malignant epithelial neoplasm of the pancreas composed of cystic structures lined by glycogen-rich clear cells, associated with local invasiveness often involving the spleen, duodenum and/or stomach and metastatic spread to the liver, peritoneum and/or lymph nodes. Presenting symptoms are variable and usually non-specific and include abdominal and/or flank pain, palpable abdominal mass, upper gastrointestinal bleeding, jaundice or abnormal serum liver enzymes, vomiting, anorexia and/or weight loss.
serous cystadenoma of pancreas (disorder)	A benign, non-metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas. It is composed of glycogen-rich epithelial cells which produce a watery fluid. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
postsurgical stage iii hepatoblastoma	No distant metastases, tumor unresectable or resected with gross residual tumor, or positive lymph nodes. (from PDQ 2004)
postsurgical stage ii hepatoblastoma	No metastases, tumor grossly resected with microscopic residual disease (i.e., positive margins); or tumor rupture, or tumor spill at the time of surgery. (from PDQ 2004)
stage iv hepatoblastoma	Distant metastases, regardless of the extent of liver involvement. (from PDQ 2004)
stage i hepatoblastoma	No metastases, tumor completely resected. (from PDQ 2004)
small cell undifferentiated hepatoblastoma	A hepatoblastoma composed exclusively of noncohesive sheets of small undifferentiated cells.
small intestinal atypical burkitt/burkitt-like lymphoma	A morphologic variant of Burkitt lymphoma that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by marked nuclear pleomorphism, abundant apoptotic debris, and the presence of tangible body macrophages.
burkitt's lymphoma of small intestine	A Burkitt lymphoma that arises from the small intestine.
figo stage ia cancer of ovary	Stage IA includes: T1a, N0, M0. T1a: Tumor limited to one ovary; capsule intact, no tumor on ovarian surface. No malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
figo stage iic ovarian carcinoma	Stage IIC includes: T2c, N0, M0. T2c: Pelvic extension and/or implants (T2a or T2b) with malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washing. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
figo stage iiia ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes and/or microscopic metastasis beyond the pelvis. (FIGO, 2014)
stage iiic ovarian cancer	Stage IIIC includes: T3c, N0/N1, M0. T3c: Ovarian cancer with macroscopic peritoneal metastasis beyond the pelvis more than 2 cm in greatest dimension with or without metastasis to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes (includes extension of tumor to capsule of liver and spleen without parenchymal involvement of either organ). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only (histologically confirmed). M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iii ovarian embryonal carcinoma ajcc v6	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ovarian polyembryoma stage iii	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iii ovarian yolk sac tumor ajcc v7	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage ii ovarian embryonal carcinoma	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage ii ovarian polyembryoma ajcc v7	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage ii ovarian yolk sac tumor ajcc v7	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian embryonal carcinoma ajcc v7	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian polyembryoma	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
yolk sac tumor of ovary stage iv	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage i ovarian embryonal carcinoma ajcc v6 and v7	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
stage i ovarian polyembryoma	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
stage i ovarian yolk sac tumor ajcc v6 and v7	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
ovarian granulosa cell neoplasm	A granulosa-stromal cell tumor that arises from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of granulosa cells that comprise at least ten percent of the cellular population. The granulosa cells are often found in a background that contains theca and fibrous cells. There are two major subtypes recognized, adult and juvenile granulosa cell tumor. Clinically, patients may present with an abdominal mass. Symptoms depend on the patient's age. The most important indicator of prognosis is tumor stage. Age over forty years at the time of the initial diagnosis, large tumor size, bilaterality, cellular atypia, and increased mitotic activity are factors indicating a potentially aggressive clinical course and relative poor prognosis.
benign struma ovarii	A mature monodermal teratoma that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of benign, thyroid-type tissues.
polyembryoma of ovary (diagnosis)	A rare, malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of embryoid bodies which resemble early embryos. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C39990" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C39990" NCI Thesaurus)
juvenile type bilateral ovarian granulosa cell tumor	A granulosa cell tumor that involves both ovaries. It affects females in the first three decades of life.
malignant tumor, clear cell type	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by a predominance of clear and hobnail malignant epithelial cells.
malignant ovarian endometrioid tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary characterized by the presence of malignant, endometrial-type cells. It includes endometrioid adenocarcinoma and carcinosarcoma.
malignant ovarian mucinous tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that contain intracytoplasmic mucin and may resemble the epithelial cells of the endocervix or gastrointestinal tract. It includes mucinous adenocarcinoma and mucinous adenocarcinofibroma.
malignant ovarian serous tumor	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that, in well differentiated tumors, resemble the epithelium of the fallopian tube or, in poorly differentiated tumors, show anaplastic features and marked nuclear atypia. It includes serous adenocarcinoma and serous adenocarcinofibroma.
malignant ovarian epithelial tumor	An invasive malignant tumor that originates from the surface epithelium of the ovary. It is composed of malignant epithelial cells and stroma. Representative examples include serous adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, endometrioid adenocarcinoma, clear cell adenocarcinoma, and malignant Brenner tumor.
malignant ovarian transitional cell neoplasm	An invasive malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells that resemble malignant urothelial cells. It includes transitional cell carcinoma and malignant Brenner tumor.
ovarian biphasic or triphasic teratoma	A germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and is composed of tissues that originate from two or three of the following germ layers, endoderm, ectoderm, or mesoderm.
ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma	A rare malignant, epithelial ovarian neoplasm, composed of clear, eosinophilic and hobnail cells displaying variable degrees of tubulocystic, papillary and solid histological patterns, macroscopically appearing as a typically unilateral mass in the ovary which ranges from solid to cystic. Patients are often diagnosed in early stages and usually present with pelvic pain and pressure, an abdominal mass and/or gastrointestinal problems, such as early satiety or bloating. Association with Lynch syndrome has been reported.
ovarian dermoid cyst with adenocarcinoma	A secondary adenocarcinoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with angiosarcoma	A secondary angiosarcoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with corticotropin secreting adenoma	A corticotropin secreting adenoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst. It may present with Cushing syndrome. The clinical course is benign.
ovarian dermoid cyst with leiomyosarcoma	A secondary leiomyosarcoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with melanocytic nevus	A secondary melanocytic nevus that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with melanoma	A secondary melanoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with prolactin secreting adenoma	A prolactin secreting adenoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst. It may present with hyperprolactinemia and amenorrhea. The clinical course is benign.
ovarian dermoid cyst with sebaceous adenoma	A secondary sebaceous adenoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with sebaceous carcinoma	A secondary sebaceous carcinoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with secondary carcinoma	A secondary carcinoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst. In the majority of cases, the secondary carcinoma is a squamous cell carcinoma.
ovarian dermoid cyst with secondary melanocytic lesion	A secondary melanoma or melanocytic nevus that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with secondary pituitary-type tumor	A secondary corticotropin secreting adenoma or prolactin secreting adenoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst. The clinical course is benign.
ovarian dermoid cyst with secondary sarcoma	A secondary sarcoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst. Representative examples of secondary sarcomas include leiomyosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and angiosarcoma.
ovarian dermoid cyst with secondary sebaceous tumor	A secondary sebaceous adenoma or sebaceous carcinoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
ovarian dermoid cyst with squamous cell carcinoma	A secondary squamous cell carcinoma that has developed in an ovarian dermoid cyst.
homunculus	A rare type of teratoma that arises from the ovary and resembles a malformed fetus.
ovarian small cell carcinoma, hypercalcemic type	An undifferentiated small cell carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is associated with hypercalcemia. Electron microscopic studies show neurosecretory granules are either absent or, when present, are in small numbers.
ovarian small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma	An aggressive small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma that arises from the ovary. Morphologically, it resembles the small cell carcinoma that arises from the lung.
ovarian yolk sac tumor, glandular pattern	A yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of extensive differentiation into endodermal type glandular structures.
ovarian yolk sac tumor, hepatoid pattern	A yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of extensive differentiation into hepatic tissue.
ovarian yolk sac tumor, polyvesicular vitelline pattern	A yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of multiple dilated spaces lined by cells that resemble mesothelial cells. The dilated spaces coexist with columnar epithelial tissues.
pancreatic mucinous-cystic neoplasm with an associated invasive carcinoma	A cystic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of columnar mucin-producing epithelial cells, ovarian-type stroma formation, and a focal or extensive invasive carcinomatous component.
pancreatic mucinous-cystic neoplasm	A non-invasive or invasive cystic epithelial neoplasm that affects almost exclusively females. It is characterized by the presence of columnar mucin-producing epithelial cells and ovarian-type stroma formation.
pancreatic serous neoplasm	A benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that is usually cystic and arises from the exocrine pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that produce fluid similar to serum. Representative examples include serous cystadenoma and serous cystadenocarcinoma.
malignant mixed mesodermal neoplasm of uterine body	A rare malignant mixed epithelial and mesenchymal tumor of the uterine body composed of high-grade carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements. It may present with vaginal bleeding, abnormal vaginal discharge, abdominal pain and/or pelvic mass, with a polypoid tumor sometimes protruding through the cervical canal. Association with Tamoxifen therapy, long-term unopposed estrogen use and previous pelvic radiotherapy has been reported.
juvenile type ovarian granulosa cell tumor	Juvenile granulosa cell ovarian tumor (JGCOT) is a rare sex cord stromal tumor, occuring most frequently in premenarchal girls or young women. In contrast to adult granulosa cell tumor, JGCOT has a high mitotic index and more aggressive tumor growth. Microscopically it is seen as diffuse and regularly distributed neoplastic cells with a wide cytoplasm and pleomorphic hyperchromatic nucleus. Follicle formation, in various sizes and shapes, is important in JGCOT. Call-Exner bodies are infrequently seen in JGCOT in contrast to the adult type. [NCIT:C7289, PMID:25788847]
ossifying renal tumor of infancy	A benign neoplasm of the kidney occurring in infants. It develops as an intracalyceal mass and is characterized by the presence of osteoid formation, osteoblast-like cells, and spindle cells.
ovarian squamous cell cancer	A usually high grade squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the ovary and is not associated with a germ cell tumor. The prognosis is poor.
cystadenocarcinoma of intrahepatic bile duct (diagnosis)	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component.
ovarian clear cell adenocarcinofibroma	A carcinoma arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with clear cytoplasm in a fibrotic stroma.
small cell ovarian carcinoma	A rare highly aggressive poorly differentiated ovarian neoplasm, often associated with paraneoplastic hypercalcaemia. It is usually diagnosed in childhood or young adulthood at an advanced stage and presents with abdominal or pelvic mass or, rarely, symptoms related to hypercalcaemia. Occasional familial cases have been reported.
serous adenocarcinofibroma	A malignant neoplasm of the ovary with an invasive epithelial component and a fibrotic stroma. The epithelial component is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells of serous type, forming glandular, papillary, and solid patterns.
mucinous adenocarcinofibroma	A malignant neoplasm of the ovary with an invasive epithelial component and a fibrotic stroma. The epithelial component is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells with intracytoplasmic mucin. Cystic spaces are also present which contain mucoid material.
adenosquamous carcinoma of ovary	An endometrioid adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and exhibits squamous differentiation. The squamous cell component often has a cytologically benign appearance.
pancreatic serous adenoma	A benign, non-metastasizing, usually cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas. It is composed of glycogen-rich epithelial cells which produce a watery fluid. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
pancreatic macrocystic serous cystadenoma	A benign, non-metastasizing epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of a few large cysts and is composed of glycogen-rich epithelial cells which produce a watery fluid.
pancreatic solid serous adenoma	A well-circumscribed serous adenoma that is solid and lacks cystic changes.
vhl-associated pancreatic serous adenoma	A serous adenoma that develops in a patient with Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. Usually there are multiple serous adenomas present of the macrocystic type.
pancreatic mucinous-cystic neoplasm, low grade	A non-invasive mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the pancreas and is characterized by the presence of mild dysplasia and absence of mitotic figures.
noninvasive pancreatic mucinous cystic neoplasm	A cystic epithelial neoplasm characterized by the presence of columnar mucin-producing epithelial cells, ovarian-type stroma formation, and the absence of an invasive carcinomatous component.
pancreatic mucinous-cystic neoplasm, high grade	A non-invasive mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the pancreas and is characterized by the presence of severe dysplasia. The neoplastic columnar mucin-producing epithelial cells form papillae with irregular branching and budding. There is nuclear stratification, prominent nucleoli, and cellular pleomorphism. Mitotic activity is present and the mitoses may be atypical.
bile duct mucinous cystic neoplasm with low grade intraepithelial neoplasia	A non-invasive mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of mild atypia.
bile duct mucinous cystic neoplasm, high grade	A non-invasive mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of severe atypia.
extrahepatic bile duct mucinous cystic neoplasm with an associated invasive carcinoma	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component.
high grade ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	A rapidly growing serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of high grade cytologic features and frequent mitotic figures.
low-grade ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	A slow-growing serous adenocarcinoma that arises from the ovary. It usually originates from borderline neoplastic processes or adenofibromas. It is characterized by the presence of low grade cytologic features and infrequent mitotic figures.
childhood ovarian mixed germ cell tumor	A mixed germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood ovarian non-germinomatous germ cell tumor	A nongerminomatous germ cell tumor that arises in the ovary and occurs in children.
figo stage iii ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer involving 1 or both ovaries with cytologically or histologically confirmed spread to the peritoneum outside the pelvis and/or metastasis to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage ii ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer involving one or both ovaries with pelvic extension (below the pelvic brim) or primary peritoneal cancer. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage iiib ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with macroscopic, extrapelvic, peritoneal metastasis equal or less than 2 cm +/- positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Includes extension to capsule of liver/spleen. (FIGO, 2014)
ovarian cancer by figo stage	A category of staging terms for ovarian cancer according to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), 2014. AJCC ovarian cancer stage terms from the 6th and 7th editions that are synonymous to the FIGO ovarian cancer staging classification of 2014 are included as preferred terms.
ovarian cancer by ajcc v6 and v7 stage	A category of staging terms for ovarian cancer according to the American Joint Committee on cancer (AJCC) 6th and 7th editions. International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) ovarian cancer staging terms prior to 2014 are included in this category if synonymous with the AJCC terms.
peritoneal desmoplastic small round cell tumor	A desmoplastic small round cell tumor that occurs in the abdominal and/or pelvic peritoneum.
figo stage ivb ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with hepatic and/or splenic parenchymal metastasis, metastasis to extra-abdominal organs (including inguinal lymph nodes and lymph nodes outside of the abdominal cavity). (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage iva ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with pleural effusion with positive cytology. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage iiia2 ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with microscopic, extrapelvic (above the brim) peritoneal involvement +/- positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage iiia1(ii) ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only. Metastasis greater than 10 mm. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage iiia1(i) ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only. Metastasis equal or less than 10 mm. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage iiia1 ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage ic3 ovarian cancer	Stage IC ovarian cancer with malignant cells in the ascites or peritoneal washings. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage ic2 ovarian carcinoma	Stage IC ovarian cancer with capsule rupture before surgery or tumor on ovarian surface. (FIGO, 2014)
figo stage ic1 ovarian cancer	Stage IC ovarian cancer with surgical spill. (FIGO, 2014)
stage i ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Ovarian cancer with tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage ia ovarian carcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IA includes: T1a, N0, M0. T1a: Ovarian cancer with tumor limited to one ovary (capsule intact); no malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage ib ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage IB includes: T1b, N0, M0. T1b: Ovarian cancer with tumor limited to one or both ovaries (capsules intact); no tumor on ovarian surface; no malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage ic ovarian cancer	Stage IC includes: T1c, N0, M0. T1c: Ovarian cancer with tumor limited to one or both ovaries, with any of the following: surgical spill, capsule ruptured before surgery or tumor on ovarian surface, or malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage ii ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Ovarian cancer with tumor involving one or both ovaries with pelvic extension below pelvic brim. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iia ovarian cancer	Stage IIA includes: T2a, N0, M0. T2a: Ovarian cancer with tumor extension and/or implants on the uterus and/or fallopian tube(s) and/or ovaries. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iib ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage IIB includes: T2b, N0, M0. T2b: Ovarian cancer with tumor extension to and/or implants on other pelvic tissues. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iii ovarian carcinoma ajcc v8	Stage III includes: IIIA1: T1/2, N1, M0; IIIA2: T3a, N0/N1, M0; IIIB: T3b, N0/N1, M0; IIIC: T3c, N0/N1, M0. T1: Ovarian cancer with tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). T2: Ovarian cancer with tumor involving one or both ovaries with pelvic extension below pelvic brim. T3a: Ovarian cancer with microscopic extrapelvic (above the pelvic brim) peritoneal involvement with or without positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. T3b: Ovarian cancer with macroscopic peritoneal metastasis beyond pelvis 2 cm or less in greatest dimension with or without metastasis to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. T3c: Ovarian cancer with macroscopic peritoneal metastasis beyond the pelvis more than 2 cm in greatest dimension with or without metastasis to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes (includes extension of tumor to capsule of liver and spleen without parenchymal involvement of either organ). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only (histologically confirmed). M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iiib ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage IIIB includes: T3b, N0/N1, M0. T3b: Ovarian cancer with macroscopic peritoneal metastasis beyond pelvis 2 cm or less in greatest dimension with or without metastasis to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only (histologically confirmed). M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iiia ovarian cancer	Stage IIIA includes: IIIA1: T1/2, N1, M0; IIIA2: T3a, N0/N1, M0. T1: Ovarian cancer with tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). T2: Ovarian cancer with tumor involving one or both ovaries with pelvic extension below pelvic brim. T3a: Ovarian cancer with microscopic extrapelvic (above the pelvic brim) peritoneal involvement with or without positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only (histologically confirmed). M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iv ovarian carcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1: M1: Distant metastasis, including pleural effusion with positive cytology; liver or splenic parenchymal metastasis; metastasis to extra-abdominal organs (including inguinal lymph nodes and lymph nodes outside the abdominal cavity); and transmural involvement of intestine. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
ovarian cancer by ajcc v8 stage	A term that refers to the staging of ovarian cancer according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition. This staging system applies to ovarian carcinomas. Nonepithelial primary ovarian cancers may be staged using this classification but should be reported separately. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iiia1 ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage IIIA1 includes: T1/2, N1, M0. T1: Ovarian cancer with tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). T2: Ovarian cancer with tumor involving one or both ovaries with pelvic extension below pelvic brim. N1: Positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only (histologically confirmed). M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iiia2 ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage IIIA2 includes: T3a, N0/N1, M0. T3a: Ovarian cancer with microscopic extrapelvic (above the pelvic brim) peritoneal involvement with or without positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes only (histologically confirmed). M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iva ovarian cancer	Stage IVA includes: Any T, Any N, M1a. M1a: Ovarian cancer with pleural effusion with positive cytology. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage ivb ovarian cancer ajcc v8	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1b. M1b: Ovarian cancer with liver or splenic parenchymal metastases; metastases to extra-abdominal organs (including inguinal lymph nodes and lymph nodes outside the abdominal cavity); transmural involvement of intestine. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
refractory hepatoblastoma	Hepatoblastoma that does not respond to treatment.
platinum-resistant ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that is resistant to platinum therapy.
brca-associated ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma caused by deleterious germline mutation in a gene of the BRCA family.
recurrent brca- associated ovarian carcinoma	The reemergence of BRCA-associated ovarian carcinoma after a period of remission.
ovarian cancer	A malignant neoplasm originating from the surface ovarian epithelium. []
stage i ovarian dysgerminoma	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
stage ii ovarian dysgerminoma ajcc v7	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iii ovarian dysgerminoma ajcc v6 and v7	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian dysgerminoma ajcc v6	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage i ovarian teratoma ajcc v6	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
stage ii ovarian teratoma ajcc v6 and v7	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iii ovarian germ cell teratoma	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian teratoma ajcc v7	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ovarian cancer stage iv	Cancer that began in tissue covering the ovary is found in one or both ovaries and has spread beyond the abdomen to distant parts of the body. Ovarian cancer that is found in tissues of the liver is stage IV disease.
stage ib ovarian cancer	Stage IB includes: T1b, N0, M0. T1b: Tumor limited to both ovaries; capsules intact, no tumor on ovarian surface. No malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage ic ovarian cancer ajcc v6 and v7	Stage IC includes: T1c, N0, M0. T1c: Tumor limited to one or both ovaries with any of the following: capsule ruptured, tumor on ovarian surface, malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iia ovarian epithelial cancer	Stage IIA includes: T2a, N0, M0. T2a: Extension and/or implants on uterus and/or tube(s). No malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iib ovarian cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIB includes: T2b N0, M0. T2b: Extension and/or implants on other pelvic tissues. No malignant cells in ascites or peritoneal washings. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ajcc stage iiia ovarian cancer	Stage IIIA includes: T3a, N0, M0. T3a: Microscopic peritoneal metastasis beyond pelvis (no macroscopic tumor). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
figo stage iiib carcinoma of ovary	Stage IIIB includes: T3b, N0, M0. T3b: Macroscopic peritoneal metastasis beyond pelvis 2 cm or less in greatest dimension. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
figo stage iiic ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer with macroscopic, extrapelvic, peritoneal metastasis greater than 2 cm +/- positive retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Includes extension to capsule of liver/spleen. (FIGO, 2014)
malignant ovarian teratoma	A teratoma that arises from the ovary. It is composed exclusively of immature tissue elements.
refractory ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
recurrent ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
refractory ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma	Ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
recurrent ovarian carcinosarcoma	The reemergence of ovarian carcinosarcoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian serous adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian mucinous adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian mucinous adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent malignant ovarian transitional cell tumor	The reemergence of malignant ovarian transitional cell tumor after a period of remission.
recurrent malignant ovarian brenner tumor	The reemergence of malignant ovarian Brenner tumor after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian transitional cell carcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian transitional cell carcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian cystadenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian cystadenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent uterine corpus carcinosarcoma	The reemergence of uterine corpus carcinosarcoma after a period of remission.
recurrent low grade ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of low grade ovarian serous adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
grade 1 ovarian teratoma	A teratoma that arises from the ovary. It contains mature tissue elements and a limited amount of immature tissue elements.
refractory endometrial carcinosarcoma	Uterine Corpus Carcinosarcoma that is resistant to treatment.
advanced uterine corpus carcinosarcoma	Uterine corpus carcinosarcoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
recurrent desmoplastic small round cell tumor	The reemergence of desmoplastic small round cell tumor after a period of remission.
refractory desmoplastic small round cell tumor	Desmoplastic small round cell tumor that is resistant to treatment.
platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer	Ovarian carcinoma that has a documented response to platinum-based chemotherapy.
recurrent malignant ovarian granulosa cell tumor	The reemergence of malignant ovarian granulosa cell tumor after a period of remission.
unresectable ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
metastatic ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
recurrent high grade ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian high-grade serous adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
advanced ovarian carcinoma	An ovarian carcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
locally advanced ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
unresectable ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian carcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian carcinoma	The reemergence of platinum-resistant ovarian carcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma	The reemergence of ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma after a period of remission.
unresectable desmoplastic small round cell tumor	A desmoplastic small round cell tumor that is not amenable to surgical resection.
metastatic desmoplastic small round cell tumor	A desmoplastic small round cell tumor that has spread from the original site of growth to another anatomic site.
metastatic uterine corpus carcinosarcoma	Uterine corpus carcinosarcoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
metastatic ovarian carcinosarcoma	Ovarian carcinosarcoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
advanced ovarian carcinosarcoma	Ovarian carcinosarcoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
advanced ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
metastatic ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma	Ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
advanced ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma	Ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
metastatic ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma	Ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
advanced ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma	Ovarian clear cell adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
refractory ovarian serous adenocarcinoma	Ovarian serous adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
ovarian neuroendocrine carcinoma	A small cell carcinoma, pulmonary-type or large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma arising from the ovary.
metastatic ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma	Ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
unresectable ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma	Ovarian undifferentiated carcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
refractory ovarian adenocarcinoma	Ovarian adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
tumor of abdomen (disorder)	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
non-haematological tumours of unspecified malignancy (smq)	Malignancies (SMQ) includes terms for: all types of malignant or unspecified tumors; malignancy related conditions; malignancy related therapeutic and diagnostic procedures; and tumour markers. [Note: Premalignant disorders are in a separate SMQ]. There are ten sub-SMQs which can be used separately or in combination. Malignancies (SMQ) is subdivided into four sub-SMQs: Malignant or unspecified tumours (SMQ); Malignancy related conditions (SMQ); Malignancy related therapeutic and diagnostic procedures (SMQ); and Tumour markers (SMQ). Malignant or unspecified tumours (SMQ) contains all MedDRA terms for malignant or unspecified tumors, which is further subdivided into two separate sub-SMQs: Malignant tumours (SMQ); and Tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ). Malignant tumours (SMQ) is subordinated by Haematological malignant tumours (SMQ); and Non-haematological malignant tumours (SMQ). Tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ) is subordinated by Haematological tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ); and Non-haematological tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ).
non-hematological tumors of unspecified malignancy (smq)	Malignancies (SMQ) includes terms for: all types of malignant or unspecified tumors; malignancy related conditions; malignancy related therapeutic and diagnostic procedures; and tumour markers. [Note: Premalignant disorders are in a separate SMQ]. There are ten sub-SMQs which can be used separately or in combination. Malignancies (SMQ) is subdivided into four sub-SMQs: Malignant or unspecified tumours (SMQ); Malignancy related conditions (SMQ); Malignancy related therapeutic and diagnostic procedures (SMQ); and Tumour markers (SMQ). Malignant or unspecified tumours (SMQ) contains all MedDRA terms for malignant or unspecified tumors, which is further subdivided into two separate sub-SMQs: Malignant tumours (SMQ); and Tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ). Malignant tumours (SMQ) is subordinated by Haematological malignant tumours (SMQ); and Non-haematological malignant tumours (SMQ). Tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ) is subordinated by Haematological tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ); and Non-haematological tumours of unspecified malignancy (SMQ).
tumor abdominal	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominal neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdomen tumours	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplastic growth	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
neoplastic process	The pathological mechanisms and forms taken by tissue during degeneration into a neoplasm and its subsequent activity.
abdomen tumors	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplasm, nos	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
neoplastic process (qualifier value)	The pathological mechanisms and forms taken by tissue during degeneration into a neoplasm and its subsequent activity.
abdominal neopl	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplasm of abdomen (disorder)	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominal tumours	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
tumour of abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdomen--tumors	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplasm of abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominal neoplasms	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominal tumors	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominals tumors	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
tumor abdomen	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominal tumour	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
abdominal neoplasm nos	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplasm of anus	Tumors or cancer of the ANAL CANAL.
neopl biliary tract	Tumors or cancer in the BILIARY TRACT including the BILE DUCTS and the GALLBLADDER.
tumor of bladder	new abnormal urinary bladder tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
neoplasm, abdominal	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
ngb - new growth of bladder	new abnormal urinary bladder tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
neoplasm of the uterine cervix	new abnormal cervical tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
mole, invasive	A uterine tumor derived from persistent gestational TROPHOBLASTS, most likely after a molar pregnancy (HYDATIDIFORM MOLE). Invasive hyadatiform mole develops in about 15% of patients after evacuation of a complete mole and less frequently after other types of gestation. It may perforate the MYOMETRIUM and erode uterine vessels causing hemorrhage.
neoplasm of endometrium	Tumors or cancer of ENDOMETRIUM, the mucous lining of the UTERUS. These neoplasms can be benign or malignant. Their classification and grading are based on the various cell types and the percent of undifferentiated cells.
fallopian tube tumor	Benign or malignant neoplasms of the FALLOPIAN TUBES. They are uncommon. If they develop, they may be located in the wall or within the lumen as a growth attached to the wall by a stalk.
neoplasm of intestinal tract	Tumors or cancer of the INTESTINES.
neoplasm of intestine	Tumors or cancer of the INTESTINES.
pancreatic neoplasms	Tumors or cancer of the PANCREAS. Depending on the types of ISLET CELLS present in the tumors, various hormones can be secreted: GLUCAGON from PANCREATIC ALPHA CELLS; INSULIN from PANCREATIC BETA CELLS; and SOMATOSTATIN from the SOMATOSTATIN-SECRETING CELLS. Most are malignant except the insulin-producing tumors (INSULINOMA).
pelvis tumors	Tumors or cancer of the pelvic region.
abdominal wall neoplasm nos	Tumors or cancer of the PERITONEUM.
prostate tumor	Tumors or cancer of the PROSTATE.
neoplasm of the retroperitoneum (disorder)	New abnormal growth of tissue in the RETROPERITONEAL SPACE.
ureteral neoplasm	Cancer or tumors of the URETER which may cause obstruction leading to hydroureter, HYDRONEPHROSIS, and PYELONEPHRITIS. HEMATURIA is a common symptom.
neoplasms, urethra	Cancer or tumors of the URETHRA. Benign epithelial tumors of the urethra usually consist of squamous and transitional cells. Primary urethral carcinomas are rare and typically of squamous cells. Urethral carcinoma is the only urological malignancy that is more common in females than in males.
uterus; tumor	Tumors or cancer of the UTERUS.
vaginal tumor	Tumors or cancer of the VAGINA.
benign tumour of cervix	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the cervix. Representative examples include squamous papilloma, endocervical polyp, and rhabdomyoma.
benign neoplasm of cervix uteri	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the cervix. Representative examples include squamous papilloma, endocervical polyp, and rhabdomyoma.
benign neoplasm of uterus, nos	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the uterine corpus or the cervix. Representative examples include leiomyoma, adenomyoma, and endocervical polyp.
benign neoplasm of vagina (diagnosis)	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vagina. Representative examples include squamous papilloma and melanocytic nevus.
benign neoplasm of prostate	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the prostate. Representative examples include benign phyllodes tumor, leiomyoma, and fibroma.
benign tumor of the ureter	Abnormal growth of the cells of the ureter (upper urinary tract) without malignant characteristics.
abdominal fibromatosis (diagnosis)	A relatively large mass of unusually firm scarlike connective tissue resulting from active participation of fibroblasts, occurring most frequently in the abdominal muscles of women who have borne children. The fibroblasts infiltrate surrounding muscle and fascia. (Stedman, 25th ed)
neoplasm of seminal vesicle	A benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the seminal vesicle. Representative examples include cystadenoma and adenocarcinoma.
intravenous leiomyomatosis of the uterus	A rare benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of smooth muscle cells growing within veins.
benign tumor of seminal vesicle	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the seminal vesicle.
benign intestinal tumor	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the small or large intestine.
placental neoplasm	An intrauterine mass containing decidual cells (DECIDUA) or with structures resembling the PLACENTA. Deciduomas usually are induced experimentally.
placenta neoplasm	An intrauterine mass containing decidual cells (DECIDUA) or with structures resembling the PLACENTA. Deciduomas usually are induced experimentally.
benign neoplasm of placenta (disorder)	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the placenta. Representative examples include hemangioma and polyp.
neoplasm of ovary	Tumors or cancer of the OVARY. These neoplasms can be benign or malignant. They are classified according to the tissue of origin, such as the surface EPITHELIUM, the stromal endocrine cells, and the totipotent GERM CELLS.
emgd	A premalignant neoplastic process that affects the endometrial epithelium and glands. It is characterized by architectural glandular alterations and cytological abnormalities in the epithelial cells. The lesion exceeds 1 mm in maximum linear dimension.
tumor	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
neoplasms nos	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
processes, neoplastic	The pathological mechanisms and forms taken by tissue during degeneration into a neoplasm and its subsequent activity.
anatomy	tree section heading for anatomical, physiological, and related terms.
anal neoplasms, benign and malignant	Tumors or cancer of the ANAL CANAL.
biliary tract neoplasms	Tumors or cancer in the BILIARY TRACT including the BILE DUCTS and the GALLBLADDER.
bladder neopl	new abnormal urinary bladder tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
bladder neoplasm	new abnormal urinary bladder tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
cervical neoplasm	new abnormal cervical tissue that grows by excessive cellular division and proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated the new growth cease.
malignant hydatidiform mole	A uterine tumor derived from persistent gestational TROPHOBLASTS, most likely after a molar pregnancy (HYDATIDIFORM MOLE). Invasive hyadatiform mole develops in about 15% of patients after evacuation of a complete mole and less frequently after other types of gestation. It may perforate the MYOMETRIUM and erode uterine vessels causing hemorrhage.
endometrial neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of ENDOMETRIUM, the mucous lining of the UTERUS. These neoplasms can be benign or malignant. Their classification and grading are based on the various cell types and the percent of undifferentiated cells.
fallopian tube neoplasm	Benign or malignant neoplasms of the FALLOPIAN TUBES. They are uncommon. If they develop, they may be located in the wall or within the lumen as a growth attached to the wall by a stalk.
intestines neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the INTESTINES.
intestines neopl	Tumors or cancer of the INTESTINES.
tumour of pancreas	Tumors or cancer of the PANCREAS. Depending on the types of ISLET CELLS present in the tumors, various hormones can be secreted: GLUCAGON from PANCREATIC ALPHA CELLS; INSULIN from PANCREATIC BETA CELLS; and SOMATOSTATIN from the SOMATOSTATIN-SECRETING CELLS. Most are malignant except the insulin-producing tumors (INSULINOMA).
pelvis neopl	Tumors or cancer of the pelvic region.
peritoneal neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the PERITONEUM.
abdomen neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue in the ABDOMEN.
neoplasia prostate	Tumors or cancer of the PROSTATE.
tumor of retroperitoneum	New abnormal growth of tissue in the RETROPERITONEAL SPACE.
ureter neoplasms	Cancer or tumors of the URETER which may cause obstruction leading to hydroureter, HYDRONEPHROSIS, and PYELONEPHRITIS. HEMATURIA is a common symptom.
urethral tumor	Cancer or tumors of the URETHRA. Benign epithelial tumors of the urethra usually consist of squamous and transitional cells. Primary urethral carcinomas are rare and typically of squamous cells. Urethral carcinoma is the only urological malignancy that is more common in females than in males.
uterine tumor	Tumors or cancer of the UTERUS.
vaginal neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the VAGINA.
benign neoplasm of the uterine cervix	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the cervix. Representative examples include squamous papilloma, endocervical polyp, and rhabdomyoma.
uterine tumors, benign	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the uterine corpus or the cervix. Representative examples include leiomyoma, adenomyoma, and endocervical polyp.
benign neoplasm vagina nos (disorder)	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the vagina. Representative examples include squamous papilloma and melanocytic nevus.
benign prostate neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the prostate. Representative examples include benign phyllodes tumor, leiomyoma, and fibroma.
neoplasm benign;ureter	Abnormal growth of the cells of the ureter (upper urinary tract) without malignant characteristics.
abdominal desmoid tumor	A relatively large mass of unusually firm scarlike connective tissue resulting from active participation of fibroblasts, occurring most frequently in the abdominal muscles of women who have borne children. The fibroblasts infiltrate surrounding muscle and fascia. (Stedman, 25th ed)
tumor of seminal vesicle	A benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the seminal vesicle. Representative examples include cystadenoma and adenocarcinoma.
intravenous leiomyomatosis	A rare benign neoplasm characterized by the presence of smooth muscle cells growing within veins.
benign neoplasm of seminal vesicle	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the seminal vesicle.
benign intestine neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm arising from the small or large intestine.
neoplasm of placenta	An intrauterine mass containing decidual cells (DECIDUA) or with structures resembling the PLACENTA. Deciduomas usually are induced experimentally.
placental neoplasm nos	An intrauterine mass containing decidual cells (DECIDUA) or with structures resembling the PLACENTA. Deciduomas usually are induced experimentally.
benign tumor of placenta	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the placenta. Representative examples include hemangioma and polyp.
ovarian neoplasm	Tumors or cancer of the OVARY. These neoplasms can be benign or malignant. They are classified according to the tissue of origin, such as the surface EPITHELIUM, the stromal endocrine cells, and the totipotent GERM CELLS.
endomet intraepithl neop	A premalignant neoplastic process that affects the endometrial epithelium and glands. It is characterized by architectural glandular alterations and cytological abnormalities in the epithelial cells. The lesion exceeds 1 mm in maximum linear dimension.
neoplasm	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
neoplasms	New abnormal growth of tissue. Malignant neoplasms show a greater degree of anaplasia and have the properties of invasion and metastasis, compared to benign neoplasms.
neoplastic processes	The pathological mechanisms and forms taken by tissue during degeneration into a neoplasm and its subsequent activity.
anatomical structure	tree section heading for anatomical, physiological, and related terms.
citrate of magnesia	The citrate salt of the element magnesium with cathartic activity. The cathartic action of magnesium cations appears to result, in part, from osmotically mediated water retention, which subsequently stimulates peristalsis. In addition, magnesium ions may also stimulate the activity of nitric oxide (NO) synthase and increase the biosynthesis of the phospholipid proinflammatory mediator platelet activating factor (PAF) in the gut. NO may stimulate intestinal secretion via prostglandin- and cyclic GMP-dependent mechanisms while PAF produces significant stimulation of colonic secretion and gastrointestinal motility. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C29241" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C29241" NCI Thesaurus)
dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate	The sodium salt of docusate, a dioctyl salt and an emollient laxative with stool-softening activity. Docusate decreases surface tension and emulsification of fecal matter and allows water to penetrate and mix with stool. As a result, it softens the stool.
docusate calcium	The calcium salt of docusate, a dioctyl salt and an emollient laxative with stool-softening activity. Docusate decreases surface tension and emulsification of fecal matter and allows water to penetrate and mix with stool. As a result, it softens the stool.
alosetron hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt form of alosetron, a potent and selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. Alosetron blocks the actions of serotonin at 5-HT3 sites in the peripheral nervous system, particularly on enteric and nociceptive sensory neurons, thereby affecting the regulation of visceral pain, decreasing gastrointestinal contraction and motility, and decreasing gastrointestinal secretions. This agent is used to treat diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome in women.
alosetron	A potent and selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. Alosetron blocks the actions of serotonin at 5-HT3 sites in the peripheral nervous system, particularly on enteric and nociceptive sensory neurons, thereby affecting the regulation of visceral pain, decreasing gastrointestinal contraction and motility, and decreasing gastrointestinal secretions. This agent is used to treat diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome in women.
[d]abdominal pain nos	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
elagolix	An orally bioavailable, second-generation, non-peptide based, small molecule compound and selective gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH; LHRH) receptor antagonist, with potential hormone production inhibitory activity. Upon oral administration, elagolix competes with GnRH for receptor binding and inhibits GnRH receptor signaling in the anterior pituitary gland. This inhibits the secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). In males, the inhibition of LH secretion prevents the release of testosterone. In women, inhibition of FSH and LH prevents the production of estrogen by the ovaries. Inhibition of GnRH signaling may treat or prevent symptoms of sex hormone-dependent disease states.
epigastric pain	Pain that is localized to the region of the upper abdomen immediately below the ribs. [https://www.healthgrades.com/symptoms/epigastric-pain, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432]
stomach pain	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
stomachache	A painful sensation in the stomach.
colic [d] (finding)	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
peritoneal pain	Painful sensation in the peritoneum.
pain abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
[d]abdominal pain (context-dependent category)	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
stomach ache	A painful sensation in the stomach.
[d]colic nos	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
pain in the flank	Smärta som utgår från området mellan nedre revbenskanten och höftbenskammen.
tummy ache	A painful sensation in the stomach.
ache stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
[d]abdominal colic (situation)	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
abdominal colic (finding)	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
indigestion	Impaired digestion, especially after eating.
pain (finding)	An unpleasant sensation induced by noxious stimuli which are detected by NERVE ENDINGS of NOCICEPTIVE NEURONS.
pelvis painful	Pain in the pelvic region of genital and non-genital origin.
diseases of peritoneum	Pathological processes involving the PERITONEUM.
stomach diseases	Pathological processes involving the STOMACH.
gas	presence of excessive amounts of air or gas in the stomach or intestine, leading to distention of the organs.
sickle cell anaemia	A disease characterized by chronic hemolytic anemia, episodic painful crises, and pathologic involvement of many organs. It is the clinical expression of homozygosity for hemoglobin S.
alpha-galactosidase a deficiency disease	An X-linked inherited metabolic disease caused by a deficiency of lysosomal ALPHA-GALACTOSIDASE A. It is characterized by intralysosomal accumulation of globotriaosylceramide and other GLYCOSPHINGOLIPIDS in blood vessels throughout the body leading to multi-system complications including renal, cardiac, cerebrovascular, and skin disorders.
crohn's disease [regional enteritis]	A chronic transmural inflammation that may involve any part of the DIGESTIVE TRACT from MOUTH to ANUS, mostly found in the ILEUM, the CECUM, and the COLON. In Crohn disease, the inflammation, extending through the intestinal wall from the MUCOSA to the serosa, is characteristically asymmetric and segmental. Epithelioid GRANULOMAS may be seen in some patients.
aldb - aldolase b deficiency	An autosomal recessive fructose metabolism disorder due to deficient fructose-1-phosphate aldolase (EC 2.1.2.13) activity, resulting in accumulation of fructose-1-phosphate. The accumulated fructose-1-phosphate inhibits glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis, causing severe hypoglycemia following ingestion of fructose. Prolonged fructose ingestion in infants leads ultimately to hepatic failure and death. Patients develop a strong distaste for sweet food, and avoid a chronic course of the disease by remaining on a fructose- and sucrose-free diet.
familial mediterranean fever with recurrent polyserositis	A group of HEREDITARY AUTOINFLAMMATION DISEASES, characterized by recurrent fever, abdominal pain, headache, rash, PLEURISY; and ARTHRITIS. ORCHITIS; benign MENINGITIS; and AMYLOIDOSIS may also occur. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in marenostrin gene encoding PYRIN result in autosomal recessive transmission; simple heterozygous, autosomal dominant form of the disease also exists with mutations in the same gene.
ovarian hyperstimulation syndromes	A complication of OVULATION INDUCTION in infertility treatment. It is graded by the severity of symptoms which include OVARY enlargement, multiple OVARIAN FOLLICLES; OVARIAN CYSTS; ASCITES; and generalized EDEMA. The full-blown syndrome may lead to RENAL FAILURE, respiratory distress, and even DEATH. Increased capillary permeability is caused by the vasoactive substances, such as VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTORS, secreted by the overly-stimulated OVARIES.
cyclical vomiting syndrome	A condition characterized by recurrent, self-limiting episodes of vomiting associated with intense nausea, pallor, and lethargy. It is commonly a migraine precursor.
hereditary coproporphyria	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder of porphyrin metabolism caused by deficiency of the enzyme coproporphyrinogen oxidase. It results in neurologic damage and can include abdominal pain, constipation and psychiatric manifestations.
protocoproporphyria	Vrozená porfyrie s autozomálně dominantní dědičností, způsobená sníženou aktivitou protoporfyrinogenoxidázy. Manifestuje se podobně jako jiné akutní hepatální porfyrie (zejm. jako akutní intermitentní porfyrie), často po působení noxy (barbituráty, steroidy, alkohol aj.). Vždy je přítomna fotosenzitivita. Ve stolici je vysoký obsah koproporfyrinu a protoporfyrinu, fluorescence plasmy vykazuje specifické emise. Léčba je stejná jako u akutní intermitentní porfyrie, navíc je ještě nutná péče o kůži. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
porphyrias, acute intermittent	An autosomal dominant porphyria that is due to a deficiency of HYDROXYMETHYLBILANE SYNTHASE in the LIVER, the third enzyme in the 8-enzyme biosynthetic pathway of HEME. Clinical features are recurrent and life-threatening neurologic disturbances, ABDOMINAL PAIN, and elevated level of AMINOLEVULINIC ACID and PORPHOBILINOGEN in the urine.
gitelman syndrome	An inherited renal disorder characterized by defective NaCl reabsorption in the convoluted DISTAL KIDNEY TUBULE leading to HYPOKALEMIA. In contrast with BARTTER SYNDROME, Gitelman syndrome includes hypomagnesemia and normocalcemic hypocalciuria, and is caused by mutations in the thiazide-sensitive SODIUM-POTASSIUM-CHLORIDE SYMPORTERS.
pyroglutamate hydrolase deficiency	Decreased level of the reaction 5-oxo-L-proline + ATP + 2 H(2)O = L-glutamate + ADP + 2 H(+) + phosphate. [PMID:6790862]
cronkhite-canada syndrome	Nespecifický polypózní syndrom, který je charakterizován přítomností difuzní gastrointestinální polypózy, průjmem a exsudativní enteropatií. Poprvé byl tento syndrom hlášen v roce 1955 Cronkhitem a Canadovou.
infundibulopelvic stenosis multicystic kidney syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic renal malformation syndrome with characteristics of variable degrees of malformation in the pelvicalyceal system (including unilateral or bilateral calyceal dilatation, infundibular stenosis, hypoplasia or stenosis of the renal pelvis) which lead to multicystic kidney. Clinically it exhibits abdominal, lumbar or flank pain, recurrent urinary tract infections, hypertension, proteinuria and often progresses to renal insufficiency. Calyceal dilatation and hydronephrosis are frequently seen on imaging.
polyposis, gastric	Multiple polyps in the acid-secreting mucosa of the gastric body and fundus. Fundic gland polyps (FGP) are usually 1 to 5 mm in size, though larger polyps have been found. FGPs are typically sessile, shiny, translucent, pale to pinkish in color (resembling the surrounding mucosa), and often exhibit tiny surface blood vessels. These polyps have characteristically been observed to chunk off or detach entirely at the base when removed with cold forceps, in contrast to other types of gastric polyps. [PMID:20567540]
delta storage pool disease	An autosomal recessive sub-type of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome caused by mutation(s) in the HPS1 gene, encoding Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 1 protein. This sub-type is associated with pulmonary fibrosis.
mvah	An extremely rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the GCGR gene. It is characterized by the presence of islet glucagon cell hyperplasia and glucagon cell tumors.
abdomen; colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
pain epigastric	Pain that is localized to the region of the upper abdomen immediately below the ribs. [https://www.healthgrades.com/symptoms/epigastric-pain, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432]
inguinodynia	An unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort (such as pricking, throbbing, or aching) localized to the groin region. []
abdominal migraines	Paroxysmal episodes of intense, acute periumbilical pain that lasts for one or more hours with intervening periods of usual health lasting weeks to months, with no evidence of an inflammatory, anatomic, metabolic, or neoplastic process that explains the symptoms. The pain interferes with normal activities and is associated with at least two of the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, photophobia, and/or pallor.
colic [d]	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
abdominal colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
groin pain	An unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort (such as pricking, throbbing, or aching) localized to the groin region. []
infantile colic (finding)	Consistent pattern of crying in a healthy infant between 3 weeks and 3 months of age. Often defined as lasting 3 hours a day more than 3 days a week for at least 3 weeks in a row.
migraine abdominal	Paroxysmal episodes of intense, acute periumbilical pain that lasts for one or more hours with intervening periods of usual health lasting weeks to months, with no evidence of an inflammatory, anatomic, metabolic, or neoplastic process that explains the symptoms. The pain interferes with normal activities and is associated with at least two of the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, photophobia, and/or pallor.
pain; abdominal	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
[d]symptoms (situation)	Subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient.
acute abdomen (disorder)	A clinical syndrome with acute abdominal pain that is severe, localized, and rapid in onset. Acute abdomen may be caused by a variety of disorders, injuries, or diseases.
abdominal guarding	A voluntary contraction of the abdominal wall musculature to avoid pain. []
abdominal pain, episodic	An intermittent form of abdominal pain. [HPO:probinson]
painful	An unpleasant sensation induced by noxious stimuli which are detected by NERVE ENDINGS of NOCICEPTIVE NEURONS.
abdominal symptom	A subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen. []
gastro pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
abdmnal pain unspcf site	Sensation of discomfort, distress, or agony in the abdominal region.
gastrointestinal perforation, ulcer, hemorrhage, obstruction non-specific findings/procedures (smq)	SMQ Gastrointestinal perforation, ulceration, haemorrhage or obstruction is intended to identify relevant MedDRA terms used in a search for cases of possible gastrointestinal perforation, ulceration, haemorrhage or obstruction. This sub-search SMQ is intended for use in conjunction with the other sub-SMQs.
gastrointestinal ulceration (smq)	This SMQ is intended to identify relevant MedDRA terms used in a search for cases of possible gastrointestinal perforation, ulceration, haemorrhage or obstruction. Gastrointestinal ulceration: Ulceration is a local defect or excavation of surface of an organ or tissue; produced by sloughing of inflammatorynecrotic tissue.
pain gi	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
gastrointestinal perforation, ulcer, haemorrhage, obstruction non-specific findings/procedures (smq)	SMQ Gastrointestinal perforation, ulceration, haemorrhage or obstruction is intended to identify relevant MedDRA terms used in a search for cases of possible gastrointestinal perforation, ulceration, haemorrhage or obstruction. This sub-search SMQ is intended for use in conjunction with the other sub-SMQs.
gastrointestinal pains	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
gastrointestinal pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
gi pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gastrointestinal region.
anxiety	Feelings or emotions of dread, apprehension, and impending disaster but not disabling as with ANXIETY DISORDERS.
constipation nos	Infrequent or difficult evacuation of FECES. These symptoms are associated with a variety of causes, including low DIETARY FIBER intake, emotional or nervous disturbances, systemic and structural disorders, drug-induced aggravation, and infections.
d - diarrhoea	An increased liquidity or decreased consistency of FECES, such as running stool. Fecal consistency is related to the ratio of water-holding capacity of insoluble solids to total water, rather than the amount of water present. Diarrhea is not hyperdefecation or increased fecal weight.
body nutrition deficit	Intake of nutrients insufficient to meet metabolic needs.
latex allergy reaction	A hypersensitive reaction to natural latex rubber products.
stomach pain (diagnosis)	A painful sensation in the stomach.
[d]colic nos (situation)	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
pain;peritoneal	Painful sensation in the peritoneum.
urination pain	Painful URINATION. It is often associated with infections of the lower URINARY TRACT.
low back pain (finding)	Acute or chronic pain in the lumbar or sacral regions, which may be associated with musculo-ligamentous SPRAINS AND STRAINS; INTERVERTEBRAL DISK DISPLACEMENT; and other conditions.
low backaches	Acute or chronic pain in the lumbar or sacral regions, which may be associated with musculo-ligamentous SPRAINS AND STRAINS; INTERVERTEBRAL DISK DISPLACEMENT; and other conditions.
pain in rectum	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the rectal region.
hepatic colic -retired-	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gallbladder region.
urethralgia	A painful sensation in the urethra.
intermenstrual; pain	A disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in one side of the abdomen between menstrual cycles, around the time of the discharge of the ovum from the ovarian follicle.
ache;stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
lower abdominal pain	A sensation of discomfort emanating from the inferior quadrants of the abdomen, which may be peritoneal or visceral in origin, or referred from an extra-abdominal location.
bladder pain (symptom)	Painful sensation in the bladder region.
pain;vaginal	A painful sensation in the vagina.
anal pain	Painful sensation in the anal region.
prostatodynia	Pain in the prostate gland.
abdominal migraine	Paroxysmal episodes of intense, acute periumbilical pain that lasts for one or more hours with intervening periods of usual health lasting weeks to months, with no evidence of an inflammatory, anatomic, metabolic, or neoplastic process that explains the symptoms. The pain interferes with normal activities and is associated with at least two of the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, photophobia, and/or pallor.
painful spasm of anus (finding)	Recurrent episodes of pain localized to the anus or lower rectum which lasts seconds to minutes. There is no pain between episodes.
pain hepatic	A painful sensation in the liver.
uterine pain (diagnosis)	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the uterus.
pudendal neuralgia	Pain associated with a damaged PUDENDAL NERVE. Clinical features may include positional pain with sitting in the perineal and genital areas, sexual dysfunction and FECAL INCONTINENCE and URINARY INCONTINENCE.
system, nervous	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
neurological function	Egenskaper och processer typiska för nervsystemet som helhet eller med avseende på det perifera eller centrala nervsystemet.
pain stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
pain gastric	A painful sensation in the stomach.
colic; abdomen	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
stomachaches	A painful sensation in the stomach.
spasmodic abdominal pain	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
gastric pain	A painful sensation in the stomach.
passing water hurts	Painful URINATION. It is often associated with infections of the lower URINARY TRACT.
lbp - low back pain	Acute or chronic pain in the lumbar or sacral regions, which may be associated with musculo-ligamentous SPRAINS AND STRAINS; INTERVERTEBRAL DISK DISPLACEMENT; and other conditions.
lumbago	Acute or chronic pain in the lumbar or sacral regions, which may be associated with musculo-ligamentous SPRAINS AND STRAINS; INTERVERTEBRAL DISK DISPLACEMENT; and other conditions.
rectum painful	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the rectal region.
biliary colic	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the gallbladder region.
pain urethra	A painful sensation in the urethra.
mittelschmerz (finding)	A disorder characterized by marked discomfort sensation in one side of the abdomen between menstrual cycles, around the time of the discharge of the ovum from the ovarian follicle.
[d]colic nos (context-dependent category)	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
lower abdominal pain (symptom)	A sensation of discomfort emanating from the inferior quadrants of the abdomen, which may be peritoneal or visceral in origin, or referred from an extra-abdominal location.
bladder pains	Painful sensation in the bladder region.
pain vagina	A painful sensation in the vagina.
pain anus	Painful sensation in the anal region.
groin pains	An unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort (such as pricking, throbbing, or aching) localized to the groin region. []
pain prostatic	Pain in the prostate gland.
proctalgia fugax	Recurrent episodes of pain localized to the anus or lower rectum which lasts seconds to minutes. There is no pain between episodes.
hepatic pain (diagnosis)	A painful sensation in the liver.
uterine pain	A disorder characterized by a sensation of marked discomfort in the uterus.
neuralgia, pudendal	Pain associated with a damaged PUDENDAL NERVE. Clinical features may include positional pain with sitting in the perineal and genital areas, sexual dysfunction and FECAL INCONTINENCE and URINARY INCONTINENCE.
neurologic body system	The entire nerve apparatus, composed of a central part, the brain and spinal cord, and a peripheral part, the cranial and spinal nerves, autonomic ganglia, and plexuses. (Stedman, 26th ed)
pain; stomach	A painful sensation in the stomach.
[d]colic	A clinical syndrome with intermittent abdominal pain characterized by sudden onset and cessation that is commonly seen in infants. It is usually associated with obstruction of the INTESTINES; of the CYSTIC DUCT; or of the URINARY TRACT.
sore tummy	A painful sensation in the stomach.
stomach; pain	A painful sensation in the stomach.
[d]abdominal migraine (context-dependent category)	Paroxysmal episodes of intense, acute periumbilical pain that lasts for one or more hours with intervening periods of usual health lasting weeks to months, with no evidence of an inflammatory, anatomic, metabolic, or neoplastic process that explains the symptoms. The pain interferes with normal activities and is associated with at least two of the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, photophobia, and/or pallor.
gardner's syndrome	A variant of ADENOMATOUS POLYPOSIS COLI caused by mutation in the APC gene (GENES, APC) on CHROMOSOME 5. It is characterized by not only the presence of multiple colonic polyposis but also extracolonic ADENOMATOUS POLYPS in the UPPER GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT; the EYE; the SKIN; the SKULL; and the FACIAL BONES; as well as malignancy in organs other than the GI tract.
mediterranean lymphoma	A condition that is caused by HYPERPLASIA of LYMPHOCYTES in the small intestine (INTESTINE, SMALL) and the mesenteric LYMPH NODES. These lymphocytes produce an anomalous alpha heavy chain protein. Generally, these IPSID patients have either concurrent LYMPHOMA or develop lymphoma within a few years. The disease was first described in the Mediterranean region and is characterized by malabsorption; WEIGHT LOSS; DIARRHEA; and STEATORRHEA.
wilms tumor (nephroblastoma)	pediatric nephroblastoma originating from embryonic kidney stem cells; usually affects children before the fifth year, but may occur in the fetus or rarely in later life; caused by defects in one or more tumor suppressor genes.
polyposis, myh-associated	A polyposis syndrome due to an autosomal dominant mutation of the APC genes (GENES, APC) on CHROMOSOME 5. The syndrome is characterized by the development of hundreds of ADENOMATOUS POLYPS in the COLON and RECTUM of affected individuals by early adulthood.
cholangiocarcinomas	A malignant tumor arising from the epithelium of the BILE DUCTS.
klatskin tumor	Nádor v horní oblasti vývodných žlučových cest (karcinom ductus hepaticus) s projevy obstrukčního ikteru; nádor je malý, metastazuje pomalu. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2015 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
cystadenocarcinoma of the pancreas	A cystic adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas. It includes the acinar cell and serous cystadenocarcinoma subtypes.
stage ii cancer of the colon ajcc v6	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria or into non-peritonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues. T4: Tumor directly invades other organs or structures, and/or perforates visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
colon cancer dukes c	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1, M0); IIIB (T3-T4, N1, M0); IIIC (Any T, N2, M0). N1: Metastasis in 1 to 3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in 4 or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
stage ii rectal carcinoma ajcc v6	Stage II includes IIA (T3, N0, M0) and IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosa, or into nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues. T4: Tumor directly invades other organs or structures, and/or perforates the visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
stage iii rectal carcinoma ajcc v6	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N0, M0); IIIB (T3-T4, N1, M0); IIIC (Any T, N2, M0). N1: Metastasis in 1 to 3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in 4 or more regional lymph nodes. (AJCC 6th ed.)
nephroblastoma, stage i	The tumor was completely removed by surgery and all of the following are true: (1) cancer was found only in the kidney and did not spread to blood vessels of the kidney; (2) the outer layer of the kidney did not break open; (3) the tumor did not break open; (4) a biopsy of the tumor was not done; and (5) no cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the tumor was removed.
wilms' tumor, stage ii	Cancer spread out of the kidney to nearby soft tissue or to blood vessels of the kidney and was completely removed by surgery. No cancer cells were found at the edges of the area where the cancer was removed.
stage iii nephroblastoma	Cancer remains in the abdomen after surgery and at least one of the following is true: (1) cancer has spread to lymph nodes in the abdomen or pelvis (the part of the body between the hips); (2) cancer has spread to or through the surface of the peritoneum (the layer of tissue that lines the abdominal cavity and covers most organs in the abdomen); (3) a biopsy of the tumor was done during surgery to remove it; (4) the tumor was removed in more than one piece.
stage iv wilms tumor	Cancer has spread through the blood to organs such as the lungs, liver, bone, or brain, or to lymph nodes outside of the abdomen and pelvis (the part of the body between the hips).
wilms tumor, stage v	Cancer cells are found in both kidneys when the disease is first diagnosed. Each kidney is staged separately as I, II, III, or IV.
recurrent renal adenosarcoma	The reemergence of Wilms tumor of the kidney after a period of remission.
adenocarcinoma of the duodenum	A malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the duodenum. [HPO:probinson]
epithelial predominant renal adenosarcoma	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the epithelial component. The epithelial cells may form papillary and tubular patterns and pseudorosettes.
blastema predominant renal wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the blastema component.
stromal predominant wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the predominance of the mesenchymal component.
mixed cell type wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of blastema, epithelial, and mesenchymal components (triphasic pattern) or a combination of two of them (biphasic pattern).
gastric intestinal-type adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma of the stomach arising on a background of intestinal metaplasia. Microscopically, it is characterized by a glandular pattern and it closely resembles a colonic adenocarcinoma. Grossly, it tends to be nodular, polypoid or ulcerated.
colloid adenocarcinoma of colon	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin. Malignant glandular epithelial cells are present in the mucin collections. Mucin constitutes more than 50% of the lesion. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7966" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7966" NCI Thesaurus)
carcinoma simplex of the colon.	An invasive malignant epithelial tumor that arises from the colon. There is no morphologic, immunophenotypic, or molecular biological evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation.
gallbladder adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the gallbladder. It is the most common malignant tumor of the gallbladder and it is usually well to moderately differentiated. The incidence is higher in patients with gallstones than in patients without gallstones. Signs and symptoms usually present late in the course of the disease and are reminiscent of those of chronic cholecystitis including right upper quadrant pain. Histologic variants include adenocarcinoma of the intestinal type, clear cell adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, papillary adenocarcinoma, and signet ring adenocarcinoma. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9166" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9166" NCI Thesaurus)
rectal mucinous adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the rectum characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin. Malignant glandular epithelial cells are present in the mucin collections. Mucin constitutes more than 50% of the lesion. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7973" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7973" NCI Thesaurus)
anaplastic carcinoma of gallbladder	A carcinoma without evidence of differentiation arising from the gallbladder. The most common variant is the spindle and giant cell type which resembles a sarcoma.
rectal signet ring cell adenocarcinoma	An infiltrating adenocarcinoma arising from the rectum. It is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells with prominent intracytoplasmic mucin. These cells constitute more than 50% of the malignant cellular population.
gallbladder adenocarcinoma with squamous metaplasia	An infiltrating adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder characterized by the presence of metaplastic changes of the malignant glandular cells to squamous cells. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9169" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9169" NCI Thesaurus)
gallbladder, squamous cell carcinoma of the	A squamous cell carcinoma arising from the gallbladder. It is composed entirely of squamous cells and it may arise from areas of squamous metaplasia (WHO, 2000). Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9170" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9170" NCI Thesaurus)
adenocarcinoma of extrahepatic bile duct	An adenocarcinoma arising from the epithelium of the extrahepatic bile duct. Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain, anorexia, jaundice, pruritus, nausea and vomiting, and weight loss. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C7975" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C7975" NCI Thesaurus)
acinar cell adenocarcinoma of pancreas	A very rare malignant epithelial tumor of the pancreas characterized, macroscopically by a usually large well-circumscribed fully or partially encapsulated solid mass often with hemorrhage, necrosis and cystic changes in any portion of the pancreas. Histological characteristics are neoplastic cells with variable degrees of differentiation and morphology ranging from acinar structures similar to normal pancreatic acini to large sheets of poorly differentiated neoplastic cells. Presenting symptoms are typically non-specific and include abdominal pain, weight loss, vomiting, nausea, and/or less commonly jaundice. Immunohistochemical evidence of acinar-specific products is observed. Association with Lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, and pancreatic panniculitis has been reported.
germ cell tumor, ovarian, recurrent	The reemergence of ovarian germ cell tumor after a period of remission.
mixed germ cell tumor of the ovary	An ovarian malignant germ cell tumor characterized by the presence of at least two different germ cell components. At least one of the germ cell components is primitive. The most common combination of germ cell elements is dysgerminoma and yolk sac tumor. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8114" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8114" NCI Thesaurus)
adult cholangiocarcinoma	A cholangiocarcinoma occurring in adults.
pancreatic adenocarcinoma	The presence of an adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
bile duct cystadenoma	An epithelial, usually multiloculated neoplasm arising from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It occurs predominantly in females. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, and jaundice. Morphologically, the cystic spaces are lined by columnar epithelium and contain mucinous or serous fluid.
bile duct cystadenocarcinoma	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component.
malignant adrenal gland chromaffin paraganglioma	A pheochromocytoma that metastasizes to other anatomic sites. Common sites of metastasis include lymph nodes, bones, liver, and lung. Morphologic features associated with malignant pheochromocytomas include: atypical mitotic figures, capsular and vascular invasion, tumor cell necrosis, and high mitotic activity.
pancreatoblastoma	A rare pediatric carcinoma of the pancreas. [HPO:sdoelken]
intrahepatic carcinoma of bile duct	A carcinoma that originates in the intrahepatic bile duct epithelium of the intrahepatic biliary tree. Malignant lesions are solid, nodular, and grayish. Most cases are adenocarcinomas. Somatic mutations in BAP1, ARID1A, PBRM1, IDH1, and IDH2 genes have been identified. OMIM: 615619
mesothelioma of peritoneum	An aggressive malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum. Patients usually present with abdominal pain and ascites.
serous cystadenoma of ovary	A cystic tumor of the ovary, containing thin, clear, yellow serous fluid and varying amounts of solid tissue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23766763]
embryonal carcinoma of ovary	An embryonal carcinoma arising from the ovary. Signs and symptoms include the presence of an abdominal mass and abdominal pain. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8108" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8108" NCI Thesaurus)
early gastric cancer (diagnosis)	An invasive adenocarcinoma confined to the mucosa or mucosa and submucosa of the gastric wall. The regional lymph nodes may or may not be involved. It usually occurs in the lesser curvature. The 5-year survival rate following resection is between 80 percent and 95 percent, and remains high even when lymph node metastases are present.
pelvic lipomatosis (morphologic abnormality)	A neoplastic process characterized by a diffuse poorly circumscribed overgrowth of adipose tissue in the pelvic region. Clinical presentation includes complaints of back and abdominal pain, urinary frequency, perineal pain and constipation. It predominately affects black males.
small intestine neoplasm malignant duodenum carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the duodenum. The vast majority of cases are adenocarcinomas.
wilm's tumor predisposition	Familial embryonal neoplasm derived from nephrogenic blastemal cells. Several lines of differentiation, including blastemal, stromal and epithelial, are usually expressed. Comprises approximately 1% of Wilms tumors. (AFIP fascicle version 2.0 mo011000) Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C8496" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C8496" NCI Thesaurus)
stage ii colorectal cancer	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4a, N0, M0); IIC (T4b, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iii colorectal carcinoma ajcc v6	Stage III colorectal cancer is divided into stage IIIA, stage IIIB, and stage IIIC. In stage IIIA, (1) cancer may have spread through the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon and/or rectal wall to the submucosa (layer of tissue under the mucosa) and may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall. Cancer has spread to at least one but not more than 3 nearby lymph nodes, or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes; or (2) cancer has spread through the mucosa of the colon and/or rectal wall to the submucosa. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes.In stage IIIB, (1) cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall to the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon and/or rectal wall or has spread through the serosa but not to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to at least one but not more than 3 nearby lymph nodes, or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes; or (2) cancer has spread to the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall or to the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes; or (3) cancer has spread through the mucosa of the colon and/or rectal wall to the submucosa and may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall. Cancer has spread to 7 or more nearby lymph nodes. In stage IIIC, (1) cancer has spread through the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall but has not spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes; or (2) cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall to the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall or has spread through the serosa but has not spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to 7 or more nearby lymph nodes; or (3) cancer has spread through the serosa of the colon and/or rectal wall and has spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to one or more nearby lymph nodes, or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes.
ovarian germ cell tumor	A germ cell tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
non-resectable small bowel carcinoma	Carcinoma of the small intestine not amendable to resection.
recurrent carcinoma of the small bowel	The reemergence of small intestine carcinoma after a period of remission.
resectable small intestinal carcinoma	Carcinoma of the small intestine amendable to resection.
advanced peritoneal malignant mesothelioma	A malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum and has spread in the abdominal cavity. It may result in bowel obstruction.
relapsed malignant mesothelioma of peritoneum	The reemergence of malignant peritoneal mesothelioma after a period of remission.
carcinoma colon dukes d	Stage IV includes: (Any T, Any N, M1). M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the exocrine pancreatic tissue and has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
recurrent pancreatic adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of pancreatic adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
pancreatic adenocarcinoma resectable	Pancreatic adenocarcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
recurrent duodenal cancer	The reemergence of duodenal carcinoma after a period of remission.
resectable duodenal carcinoma	Carcinoma of the duodenum amendable to surgical removal.
adenosquamous carcinoma of the bile duct	A carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous malignant epithelial components.
clear cell adenocarcinoma of bile duct	A morphologic variant of extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelium composed of clear cells.
mucinous extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of extracellular mucin that constitutes more than fifty-percent of the tumor.
signet ring cell carcinoma of the bile duct	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of signet ring malignant epithelial cells.
squamous cell bile duct carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is composed entirely by malignant squamous epithelial cells.
cholangiocarcinoma non-resectable	Cholangiocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
cholangiocarcinoma recurrent	The reemergence of cholangiocarcinoma after a period of remission.
cholangiocarcinoma resectable	Cholangiocarcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
ovarian serous cystadenofibroma	A benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of cystic structures lined by serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma.
small intestine carcinoma stage i	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invades lamina propria or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
small intestine carcinoma stage ii	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosa or into the nonperitonealized perimuscular tissue (mesentery or retroperitoneum) with extension 2 cm or less. T4: Tumor perforates the visceral peritoneum or directly invades other organs or structures (including other loops of small intestine, mesentery, or retroperitoneum more than 2 cm, and abdominal wall by way of serosa; for duodenum only, invasion of pancreas or bile duct). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iii small intestine carcinoma	Stage III includes: IIIA (Any T, N1, M0); IIIB (Any T, N2, M0); N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
small intestine carcinoma stage iv	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
parietal cell adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma of the stomach arising from the parietal cells. It is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with eosinophilic, finely granular cytoplasm.
kidney embryonal adenoma	A benign, well-circumscribed renal cortical neoplasm affecting females more often than males. Polycythemia has been reported in twelve-percent of patients.
pancreatic acinar cell cystadenocarcinoma	A cystic adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of relatively uniform neoplastic cells which produce pancreatic enzymes and are arranged in acinar patterns. Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain, weight loss, nausea, and diarrhea. It usually has an aggressive clinical course.
cystic partially differentiated kidney nephroblastoma	A variant of Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of cystic spaces separated by septa. The septa contain immature epithelial cells, immature stromal cells, and blastema cells. Surgical resection is usually curative.
metanephric stromal tumour	A rare benign renal neoplasm composed of moderately cellular spindle cells. It occurs mostly in infancy and childhood.
gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from and straddles the junction of the stomach and esophagus. The category of adenocarcinomas of the gastroesophageal junction also includes the majority of adenocarcinomas previously called gastric cardia adenocarcinomas. Squamous cell carcinomas that affect or cross the junction of the stomach and esophagus are classified as carcinomas of the distal esophagus. Adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction occurs more often in Caucasian middle aged and elderly males. Clinical signs and symptoms include dysphagia, abdominal pain, and weight loss. The prognosis depends on the completeness of the surgical resection, the number of lymph nodes involved by cancer, and the presence or absence of postoperative complications. The presence of TP53 mutations indicates worse prognosis.
adult renal wilms tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in adults.
adenocarcinoma of ampulla of vater	An invasive carcinoma with glandular differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Signs and symptoms include jaundice, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
ampulla of vater adenosquamous carcinoma	A carcinoma with glandular and squamous differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Signs and symptoms include jaundice, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
ampulla of vater clear cell adenocarcinoma	A carcinoma with glandular differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of glycogen-rich cells with hyperchromatic nuclei.
ampulla of vater invasive intestinal type adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma arising from the ampulla of Vater. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of intestinal-type malignant epithelial cells.
ampulla of vater mucinous adenocarcinoma	A carcinoma with glandular differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of mucoid stroma formation.
ampullary signet ring cell carcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the ampulla of Vater. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of mucin-containing signet-ring cells.
ampullary small cell carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the ampulla of Vater and the periampullary region. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
ampulla of vater squamous cell carcinoma	A carcinoma with squamous differentiation arising from the ampulla of Vater. Signs and symptoms include jaundice, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
ampulla of vater undifferentiated carcinoma	An aggressive carcinoma arising from the ampulla of Vater. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of malignant epithelial cells without evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation. Signs and symptoms include jaundice, abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
anaplastic renal wilm's tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the presence of nuclear anaplasia. Anaplasia is defined by the presence of all of the following: multipolar polyploid mitotic figures, marked nuclear enlargement, and hyperchromasia. When anaplasia is diffuse, it is associated with an unfavorable clinical outcome.
benign ovarian serous neoplasm	A non-metastasizing neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelium that resembles the epithelium of the fallopian tube. It includes serous cystadenoma, serous adenofibroma, serous cystadenofibroma, and surface papilloma.
mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the bile duct	A mucoepidermoid carcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts.
cecal adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the cecum. It is more frequently seen in populations with a Western type diet and in patients with a history of chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Histologic variants include mucinous adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, serrated adenocarcinoma, cribriform comedo-type adenocarcinoma, and micropapillary adenocarcinoma.
pediatric choriocarcinoma of ovary	A non-gestational choriocarcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
childhood ovarian dysgerminoma	A dysgerminoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
pediatric ovarian embryonal carcinoma	An embryonal carcinoma that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
pediatric ovarian endodermal sinus neoplasm	A yolk sac tumor that arises from the ovary and occurs in children.
wilms tumor	A Wilms tumor of the kidney which occurs in children.
cloacogenic carcinoma of rectum	A carcinoma that arises from the transitional zone at the junction of the rectum and anus.
pancreatic mucinous noncystic carcinoma	An infiltrating pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, characterized by the presence of malignant cells floating in pools of mucin. It has a more favorable prognosis than the conventional infiltrating ductal adenocarcinoma. It often arises in association with intraductal pancreatic mucinous neoplasms and in some cases it may result in the development of pseudomyxoma peritonei.
colonic adenosquamous carcinoma	An unusual colon carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components. The two carcinomatous components may be admixed within the tumor, or the two may appear separately in different areas.
small cell carcinoma of the colon	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
epidermoid carcinoma of the colon	A rare epithelial tumour of the colon arising from squamous cells of the colorectal epithelium without the presence of squamous-lined fistulous tracts or a proximal extension of an anal squamous cell carcinoma. It usually presents with nonspecific symptoms, such as anorexia, weight loss, abdominal pain, changes of bowel habits, haematochezia or melaena. Cases of severe symptomatic hypercalcaemia have been reported.
distal bile duct carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the common bile duct distal to the insertion of the cystic duct.
cystadenoma of extrahepatic bile duct	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts.
adenosquamous carcinoma of gallbladder	A carcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous malignant epithelial components.
colloidal carcinoma of the gallbladder	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of extracellular mucin that constitutes more than fifty-percent of the tumor.
signet ring cell carcinoma of gallbladder (diagnosis)	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of signet ring malignant epithelial cells.
oat cell carcinoma of the gallbladder	An aggressive, high-grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
adenosquamous carcinoma of the stomach	A carcinoma that arises from the stomach and is characterized by the presence of malignant cells with glandular and squamous differentiation.
gastric cardia adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric cardia. The majority of cases have been reclassified as gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinomas.
papillary adenocarcinoma of stomach	A variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with exophytic growth and elongated finger-like processes lined by cylindrical or cuboidal cells supported by fibrovascular connective tissue cores.
small cell carcinoma of stomach	An aggressive, high-grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the stomach. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
squamous cell carcinoma of stomach	A rare epithelial tumour of the stomach, defined histopathologically as keratinising cell masses with pearl formation, mosaic pattern of cell arrangement, intercellular bridges and high concentrations of sulphydryl or disulphide bonds, arising directly from gastric mucosa, without oesophageal involvement. It is characterised by preferential location in the upper third of the stomach, high probability of lympho vascular and serosal invasion and late onset of clinical symptoms associated with poor prognosis including nonspecific symptoms of abdominal pain, dysphagia, vomiting, melaena or haematochezia, haematemesis and weight loss.
tubular adenocarcinoma of stomach (diagnosis)	A variant of gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by prominent dilated or slit-like tubules.
grade 3 colon adenocarcinoma	A colon adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with less than 50% glandular formation.
high grade colorectal adenocarcinoma	A colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with less than 50% glandular formation.
grade iii rectal adenocarcinoma	A rectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with less than 50% glandular formation.
grade 2 colon adenocarcinoma	A colon adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with 50-95% glandular formation.
moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma	A colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with 50-95% glandular formation.
grade ii rectal adenocarcinoma	A rectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with 50-95% glandular formation.
grade 1 colon adenocarcinoma	A colon adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with more than 95% glandular formation.
low grade colorectal adenocarcinoma	A colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with more than 95% glandular formation.
grade 1 rectal adenocarcinoma	A rectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant cellular infiltrate with more than 95% glandular formation.
helicobacter pylori-related gastric adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is caused by persistent infection with Helicobacter pylori.
localized adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A pheochromocytoma that does not invade surrounding tissues and is confined to the adrenal glands.
gastric mucinous adenocarcinoma	A variant of gastric adenocarcinoma with more than half of the tumor containing extracellular mucinous pools.
peritoneal cystic mesothelioma	A cystic mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum and usually affects young to middle aged females. Grossly, it presents as a large multiloculated tumor mass, usually in the pelvic peritoneum. Histologically it is characterized by the presence of multiple cysts that are lined by one or more layers of mesothelial cells that do not show atypia. Patients usually present with abdominal or pelvic mass and pain. The clinical course is indolent. The tumor may recur, but transformation to diffuse malignant mesothelioma is rare.
nonanaplastic renal wilm's tumor	Wilms tumor of the kidney characterized by the absence of nuclear anaplasia.
opisthorchis viverrini-related cholangiocarcinoma	A cholangiocarcinoma that has developed following infection with Opisthorchis viverrini.
ovarian papillary cystadenoma	A serous cystadenoma of the ovary characterized by the presence of small papillary projections in the inner surface of the cysts.
ovarian surface papilloma	A benign serous neoplasm characterized by the presence of papillary proliferations on the surface of the ovary.
pancreatic mucoepidermoid carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the pancreas showing both ductal and squamous differentiation. The squamous component should represent at least 30% of the malignant cellular infiltrate. The prognosis is usually worse than that of ductal adenocarcinoma.
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	A carcinoma occurring almost exclusively in adults that probably arises from the pancreatic duct epithelium. Most pancreatic carcinomas are ductal adenocarcinomas of which about two-thirds involve the head, with the remainder in the body and tail of the pancreas. The patients are usually over 50 years of age. Pain, jaundice, and loss of weight are the most common manifestations. Ductal adenocarcinomas usually grow rapidly and are discovered after they have already spread beyond the pancreas. Grossly, ductal adenocarcinomas are firm and poorly defined masses. Microscopically, most ductal adenocarcinomas are characterized by well-developed glandular structures embedded in a desmoplastic stroma. Ductal adenocarcinomas are fatal in the vast majority of cases (WHO 2000). Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C9120" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C9120" NCI Thesaurus)
pancreatic foamy gland adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of adenocarcinoma cells with foamy cytoplasm.
serous cystadenocarcinoma of the pancreas	A very rare malignant epithelial neoplasm of the pancreas composed of cystic structures lined by glycogen-rich clear cells, associated with local invasiveness often involving the spleen, duodenum and/or stomach and metastatic spread to the liver, peritoneum and/or lymph nodes. Presenting symptoms are variable and usually non-specific and include abdominal and/or flank pain, palpable abdominal mass, upper gastrointestinal bleeding, jaundice or abnormal serum liver enzymes, vomiting, anorexia and/or weight loss.
serous cystadenoma of pancreas	A benign, non-metastasizing cystic epithelial neoplasm arising from the exocrine pancreas. It is composed of glycogen-rich epithelial cells which produce a watery fluid. Signs and symptoms include abdominal mass, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss.
signet ring cell carcinoma of pancreas (diagnosis)	A rare pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with poor prognosis. It is characterized by the presence of malignant signet ring cells infiltrating the pancreatic parenchyma in an individual cell pattern.
periampullary adenocarcinoma	A cancer that forms near the ampulla of Vater (an enlargement of the ducts from the liver and pancreas where they join and enter the small intestine).
squamous cell carcinoma of rectum (disorder)	A rare epithelial tumour of the rectum, arising from squamous cells in the rectal epithelium, without the presence of squamous-lined fistulous tracts in the rectum or a proximal extension of squamous cell carcinoma of anal or gynaecological origin. The reported symptoms are often nonspecific, such as anorexia, weight loss, lower abdominal pain, rectal bleeding and changes of bowel habits.
signet ring cell stomach adenocarcinoma	A poorly cohesive gastric adenocarcinoma characterized by malignant cells containing intracytoplasmic mucin.
extrahepatic bile duct small cell carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
small intestinal small cell carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
ovarian embryonal carcinoma, stage iii	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iii ovarian polyembryoma ajcc v6	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
yolk sac tumor of ovary stage iii	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage ii ovarian embryonal carcinoma ajcc v6 and v7	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage ii ovarian polyembryoma	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage ii ovarian yolk sac tumor	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian embryonal carcinoma	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iv ovarian polyembryoma ajcc v7	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ovarian yolk sac tumor stage iv	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis (excludes peritoneal metastasis). (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
ovarian embryonal carcinoma, stage i	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
stage i ovarian yolk sac tumor ajcc v6	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0). T1: Tumor limited to ovaries (one or both). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th Eds.)
undifferentiated extrahepatic bile duct carcinoma	A carcinoma without evidence of differentiation arising from the extrahepatic bile ducts.
undifferentiated carcinoma of the stomach	A rare epithelial tumor of the stomach that lacks any features of differentiation beyond an epithelial phenotype. The presenting symptoms are usually vague and nonspecific, such as weight loss, anorexia, fatigue, epigastric pain and discomfort, heartburn and nausea, vomiting or hematemesis. Patients may also be asymptomatic. Ascites, jaundice, intestinal obstruction and peripheral lymphadenopathy indicate advanced stages and metastatic spread.
undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma	A carcinoma with poor prognosis that arises from the pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of a significant malignant component that does not show differentiation. The malignant cells represent a mixture of large, pleomorphic cells and giant cells, or adenocarcinoma cells and spindle cells, or spindle cells.
anaplastic carcinoma of rectum	An invasive malignant epithelial tumor that arises from the rectum. There is no morphologic, immunophenotypic, or molecular biological evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation.
mucin-producing intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	An intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that produces abundant mucin.
ovarian polyembryoma	A rare, malignant germ cell tumor arising from the ovary. It is characterized by the presence of embryoid bodies which resemble early embryos. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C39990" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C39990" NCI Thesaurus)
clc	An intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that arises from the canals of Hering.
ovarian malignant mesothelioma	A rare malignant mesothelial neoplasm that usually involves both the ovarian surface and the ovarian stroma. In most cases there is bilateral ovarian involvement.
ovarian serous adenofibroma	A benign neoplasm of the ovary characterized by the presence of glands with serous epithelial cells in a fibrotic stroma.
invasive intraductal papillary-mucinous carcinoma of pancreas	A pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of a focal or multifocal invasive carcinomatous component. The invasive carcinoma is either colloid or ductal adenocarcinoma.
pancreatic intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm with high grade dysplasia	A non-invasive pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that exhibit loss of polarity, nuclear stratification, hyperchromasia, and pleomorphism. There is severe architectural atypia and frequent mitotic figures present.
pancreatic serous cystic neoplasm	A benign or malignant epithelial neoplasm that is usually cystic and arises from the exocrine pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that produce fluid similar to serum. Representative examples include serous cystadenoma and serous cystadenocarcinoma.
sarcomatous intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	A rare, aggressive variant of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. It is characterized by the presence of adenocarcinoma cells that are intermingled with malignant pleomorphic spindle cells.
signet ring cell intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	An intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma characterized by the presence of signet ring adenocarcinoma cells.
small intestinal enteropathy-type t-cell lymphoma	An enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma arising from the small intestine, most commonly the jejunum or ileum. Patients usually present with abdominal pain, often associated with intestinal perforation. It is associated with celiac disease. The lymphoma cells are usually medium-sized to large and form an ulcerating mucosal lesion with invasion of the small intestinal wall. Villous atrophy is present in the adjacent small intestinal mucosa. In a minority of cases the lymphoma cells are medium-sized and form a monomorphic infiltrate.
adrenal gland composite pheochromocytoma	A benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the adrenal medulla. It combines morphologic characteristics of pheochromocytoma and neuroectodermal tumors such as neuroblastoma, ganglioneuroma, ganglioneuroblastoma, or peripheral nerve sheath tumor.
benign pheochromocytoma of adrenal gland	A sporadic or familial pheochromocytoma that is confined to the adrenal gland and does not have any metastatic potential. The majority of cases are sporadic, and usually unilateral. Familial cases are usually bilateral.
clear cell intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	A morphologic variant of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma composed of malignant glandular epithelium, an abundant fibrous stroma, and the presence of clear cells. Clinical symptoms include abdominal pain, weight loss and malaise.
colon signet ring cell adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells which contain prominent intracytoplasmic mucin (signet ring cells). The signet ring cells constitute more than 50% of the malignant cells.
colorectal (colon or rectal) adenosquamous cancer	An unusual colorectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components. The two carcinomatous components may be admixed within the tumor, or the two may appear separately in different areas.
colorectal mucinous adenocarcinoma	An invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of extracellular mucin pools that contain malignant glandular epithelial structures. The extracellular mucin pools occupy more than 50% of the malignant lesion.
colorectal signet ring cell carcinoma	An invasive colorectal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of malignant glandular epithelial cells with prominent intracytoplasmic mucin resulting in the displacement of the nuclei. The malignant glandular cells with intracytoplasmic mucin constitute more than 50% of the malignant cellular infiltrate.
large intestinal small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the colon or rectum. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
colorectal (colon or rectal) squamous cell cancer	A very rare colorectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of a malignant squamous cell infiltrate.
undifferentiated colorectal (colon or rectal) cancer	An invasive malignant epithelial tumor that arises from the colon or rectum. There is no morphologic, immunophenotypic, or molecular biological evidence of glandular or squamous differentiation.
intestinal type adenocarcinoma of gallbladder	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of neoplastic tubular glands lined by columnar cells or neoplastic glands lined by goblet cells.
gallbladder clear cell adenocarcinoma	A rare morphologic variant of gallbladder adenocarcinoma composed of malignant glandular epithelium with a predominance of glycogen rich clear cells. The cells display hyperchromic nuclei and well-defined cytoplasmic borders.
metastatic adrenal gland chromaffin paraganglioma	A pheochromocytoma that has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
peritoneal wdpm	A localized or multifocal mesothelioma arising from the peritoneum. It predominantly occurs in women. It is characterized by the formation of papillae, covered by a single layer of blunt mesothelial cells. Mitotic figures are not present. There is no evidence of severe cytologic atypia. It has a relatively favorable clinical outcome, compared to diffuse malignant mesothelioma.
rectal adenosquamous carcinoma	An unusual rectal carcinoma characterized by the presence of glandular and squamous carcinomatous components. The two carcinomatous components may be admixed within the tumor, or the two may appear separately in different areas.
rectosigmoid mucinous adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma of the rectosigmoid area characterized by the presence of pools of extracellular mucin. Malignant glandular epithelial cells are present in the mucin collections. Mucin constitutes more than 50% of the lesion.
rectosigmoid signet ring cell carcinoma	An infiltrating adenocarcinoma arising from the rectosigmoid area. It is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells with prominent intracytoplasmic mucin. These cells constitute more than 50% of the malignant cellular population.
relapsed adrenal gland chromaffin neoplasm	The reemergence of a pheochromocytoma following surgical removal.
regional adrenal gland chromaffinoma	A pheochromocytoma that has not spread to other regions.
small intestinal mucinous adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant glandular cells which contain intracytoplasmic mucin. Often, the infiltrating glandular structures are associated with mucoid stromal formation.
small intestinal signet ring cell carcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of malignant glandular cells in which the nucleus is pressed to one side by the presence of intracytoplasmic mucus.
small intestinal squamous cell carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant squamous cells.
undifferentiated small intestinal cancer	A carcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant epithelial cells which do not display evidence of glandular, squamous, or transitional cell differentiation.
sporadic gastric diffuse adenocarcinoma	A sporadic adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of poorly cohesive malignant cells and absence of glandular formations.
small intestinal adenosquamous cancer	A carcinoma that arises from the small intestine. It is composed of malignant glandular cells and malignant squamous cells.
sporadic gastric adenocarcinoma	A primary adenocarcinoma of the stomach in a patient with no family history of gastric cancer or inherited high risk mutations.
rectosigmoid adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma arising from the rectosigmoid area. It is more frequently seen in populations with a Western type diet and in patients with a history of chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Signs and symptoms include intestinal bleeding, anemia, and change in bowel habits. According to the degree of cellular differentiation, rectosigmoid adenocarcinomas are divided into well, moderately, and poorly differentiated. Histologic variants include mucinous adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, serrated adenocarcinoma, cribriform comedo-type adenocarcinoma, and micropapillary adenocarcinoma.
fda cdrh terminology	Terminology used in individual case reports for voluntary and mandatory reporting of adverse reactions or adverse events during both pre and post approval periods of medical device development and usage.
rectal small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma	An aggressive, high-grade, and poorly differentiated carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation that arises from the rectum. It is characterized by the presence of malignant small cells.
osteoclast-like giant cell neoplasm of pancreas	A rare variant of undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma characterized by the presence of non-neoplastic osteoclast-like giant cells.
hepatoid adenocarcinoma of gallbladder	A rare variant of gallbladder adenocarcinoma. It is characterized by the presence of a malignant glandular epithelial infiltrate that resembles hepatocellular carcinoma.
intrahepatic bile duct mucinous cystic neoplasm with an associated invasive carcinoma	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component.
extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma, intestinal type	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of neoplastic tubular glands lined by columnar cells or neoplastic glands lined by goblet cells.
small cell carcinoma of ovary (diagnosis)	A rare highly aggressive poorly differentiated ovarian neoplasm, often associated with paraneoplastic hypercalcaemia. It is usually diagnosed in childhood or young adulthood at an advanced stage and presents with abdominal or pelvic mass or, rarely, symptoms related to hypercalcaemia. Occasional familial cases have been reported.
stage iia colon cancer	Stage IIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iib colon cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIB includes: T4a, N0, M0. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiia colon cancer	Stage IIIA includes: (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiib colon cancer	Stage IIIB includes: (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
malignant neoplasm of large intestine stage iiic (diagnosis)	Stage IIIC includes: (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
malignant neoplasm of large intestine stage iv	Stage IV includes: IVA: (Any T, Any N, M1a); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1b). M1a: Metastasis confined to one organ or site (e.g., liver, lung, ovary, nonregional node). M1b: Metastases in more than one organ/site or the peritoneum. (AJCC 7th ed.)
undifferentiated gallbladder carcinoma, spindle and giant cell type	An undifferentiated carcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of spindle and giant malignant cells, including osteoclast-like giant cells.
stomach cancer, mixed adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of both glandular and poorly cohesive malignant cellular components.
pancreatic cancer, familial	A carcinoma that arises from the pancreas in a patient with a family history of pancreatic cancer. In the minority of cases, patients have recognized genetic syndromes (e.g., FAMMM syndrome, BRCA2 syndrome, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome) however, in the majority of cases the genetic cause has not been identified.
stage ii rectosigmoid cancer ajcc v6	Stage II includes IIA (T3, N0, M0) and IIB (T4, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosa, or into nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues. T4: Tumor directly invades other organs or structures, and/or perforates the visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
stage iii rectosigmoid cancer ajcc v6	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1, M0); IIIB (T3-T4, N1, M0); IIIC (Any T, N2, M0). N1: Metastasis in 1 to 3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in 4 or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
stage iv rectosigmoid cancer	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th ed.)
stage iia small intestinal cancer	Stage IIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosa or into the nonperitonealized perimuscular tissue (mesentery or retroperitoneum) with extension 2 cm or less. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iib small intestinal cancer	Stage IIB includes: T4, N0, M0. T4: Tumor perforates the visceral peritoneum or directly invades other organs or structures (including other loops of small intestine, mesentery, or retroperitoneum more than 2 cm, and abdominal wall by way of serosa; for duodenum only, invasion of pancreas or bile duct). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiia small intestinal cancer	Stage IIIA includes: Any T, N1, M0. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiib small intestinal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIIB includes: Any T, N2, M0. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iia colorectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iib colorectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIB includes: T4a, N0, M0. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iic colorectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIC includes: T4b, N0, M0. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiia colorectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIIA includes: (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiib colorectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIIB includes: (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiic colorectal (colon or rectal) cancer	Stage IIIC includes: (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage 0 intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0. Tis: Carcinoma in situ (intraductal tumor). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage i intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Solitary tumor without vascular invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage ii intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors, with or without vascular invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iii intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor perforating the visceral peritoneum or involving the local extra hepatic structures by direct invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iva intrahepatic bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)	Stage IVA includes: (T4, N0, M0); (Any T, N1, M0). T4: Tumor with periductal invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage ivb intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage 0 hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0. Tis: Carcinoma in situ. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage i hilar cholangiocarcinoma	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor confined to the bile duct, with extension up to the muscle layer or fibrous tissue. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage ii hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage II includes: T2a-b, N0, M0. T2a: Tumor invades beyond the wall of the bile duct to surrounding adipose tissue. T2b: Tumor invades adjacent hepatic parenchyma. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iiia hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage IIIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades unilateral branches of the portal vein or hepatic artery. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iiib hilar cholangiocarcinoma	Stage IIIB includes: T4, N0, M0. T4: Tumor invading the main portal vein or its branches bilaterally, or the common hepatic artery; or unilateral second-order biliary radicals with contralateral portal vein or hepatic artery involvement. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iva hilar cholangiocarcinoma	Stage IVA includes: T4, N0-1, M0. T4: Tumor invades the main portal vein or its branches bilaterally; or the common hepatic artery; or the second-order biliary radicals bilaterally; or unilateral second-order biliary radicals with contralateral portal vein or hepatic artery involvement. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Regional lymph node metastasis (including nodes along the cystic duct, common bile duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein). M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage ivb hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v7	Stage IVB includes: (Any T, N2, M0); (Any T, Any N, M1). N2: MetastasIs to periaortic, pericaval, superior mesenteric artery, and/or celiac artery lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. M1: Distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage 0 extrahepatic (distal) bile duct cancer	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0. Tis: Carcinoma in situ. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage ia distal bile duct cancer	Stage IA includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor confined to the bile duct histologically. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage ib distal bile duct cancer ajcc v7	Stage IB includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor invades beyond the wall of the bile duct. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iia distal bile duct cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades the gallbladder, pancreas, duodenum, or other adjacent organs without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iib distal bile duct cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIB includes: (T1, N1, M0); (T2, N1, M0); (T3, N1, M0). T1: Tumor confined to the bile duct histologically. T2: Tumor invades beyond the wall of the bile duct. T3: Tumor invades the gallbladder, pancreas, duodenum, or other adjacent organs without involvement of the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery. N1: Regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iii distal bile duct cancer ajcc v7	Stage III includes: T4, Any N, M0. T4: Tumor involves the celiac axis or the superior mesenteric artery. M0: No distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
stage iv distal bile duct cancer ajcc v7	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (from AJCC 7th Ed.)
pheochromocytoma, complex, benign	A benign neoplasm of the adrenal gland medulla, composed of medullary and neuroectodermal components.
pheochromocytoma, complex, malignant	A malignant neoplasm of the adrenal gland medulla, composed of medullary and neuroectodermal components.
pancreatic well differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of duct-like structures and medium-sized malignant glandular structures.
pancreatic moderately differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of medium-sized duct-like structures and small malignant tubular glandular structures.
pancreatic poorly differentiated ductal adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of small and irregular malignant glandular structures, solid sheets of malignant cells, and single malignant cells.
pancreatic hepatoid carcinoma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas. It is characterized by marked hepatocellular differentiation.
pancreatic medullary carcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by poor differentiation and a prominent syncytial growth pattern. The prognosis is more favorable compared to conventional pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
pancreatic intraductal neoplasm	A group of cystic or mass-forming epithelial neoplasms that arise from the exocrine pancreas, exhibit ductal differentiation, and grow mostly within the pancreatic ducts. This group includes the pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms and the pancreatic intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasms.
pancreatic intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm	An epithelial neoplasm that arises from the exocrine pancreas characterized by the formation of tubular structures, high grade dysplasia, and ductal differentiation. Grossly, it is characterized by the presence of intraductal nodular masses. Morphologically, there are nodules of tubular glands and occasional papillary structures growing in dilated ducts. There is no significant mucin production. Signs and symptoms include epigastric pain, weight loss, vomiting, steatorrhea, and diabetes mellitus.
pancreatic intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm with an associated invasive carcinoma	A pancreatic intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm characterized by the presence of an invasive carcinomatous component. The invasive carcinoma has a tubular pattern.
pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, gastric-type	A pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that are similar to gastric foveolar epithelial cells.
pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, intestinal-type	A pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that form tall papillae, similar to those that are present in colonic villous adenomas.
pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, pancreatobiliary-type	A pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that form thin-branching papillae and exhibit high grade dysplasia.
pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, oncocytic-type	A pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells with abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm.
poorly cohesive gastric adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of isolated malignant cells or malignant cells that form small aggregates. This category includes signet ring cell adenocarcinomas, adenocarcinomas that are composed of malignant cells resembling lymphocytes and histiocytes, and adenocarcinomas that are composed of malignant cells with deeply eosinophilic cytoplasm.
gastric hepatoid adenocarcinoma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of large polygonal malignant cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm resembling hepatocytes.
gastric carcinoma with lymphoid stroma	A rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastric mucosa and is characterized by the presence of prominent lymphocytic stromal infiltration and poorly formed tubular structures.
gastric intramucosal invasive neoplasia/ intramucosal carcinoma	A neoplasm that arises from the gastric glandular epithelium and invades the lamina propria but not the submucosa. There is marked glandular crowding, branching and budding, intraluminal necrosis, and prominent mitotic activity. Desmoplastic changes may be present or absent.
stage iii colorectal cancer	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0); IIIB (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0); IIIC (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iii rectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0); IIIB (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0); IIIC (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iii colon cancer ajcc v7	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0); IIIB (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0); IIIC (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage ii rectal cancer	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4a, N0, M0); IIC (T4b, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage ii colon cancer ajcc v7	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4a, N0, M0); IIC (T4b, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
ampulla of vater undifferentiated carcinoma with osteoclast-like giant cells	A rare variant of undifferentiated carcinoma that arises from the ampulla of Vater. It is characterized by the presence of non-neoplastic, histiocytic, osteoclast-like multinucleated giant cells.
ampulla of vater hepatoid adenocarcinoma	A very rare adenocarcinoma that arises from the ampulla of Vater. It is usually of the intestinal type and is characterized by the presence of malignant polygonal cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm resembling hepatocytes.
ampulla of vater invasive papillary adenocarcinoma	An invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from an exophytic papillary neoplasm of the ampulla of Vater.
peripheral cholangiocarcinoma	A malignant intrahepatic neoplasm arising from the small interlobular bile ducts.
bile duct mucinous cystic neoplasm, low grade	A non-invasive mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of mild atypia.
bile duct mucinous cystic neoplasm, high-grade	A non-invasive mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of severe atypia.
gallbladder cystadenocarcinoma	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the gallbladder and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component.
gallbladder cribriform carcinoma	A rare variant of gallbladder adenocarcinoma. It is characterized by the presence of a malignant glandular epithelial infiltrate with a cribriform growth pattern.
gallbladder adenocarcinoma, biliary type	A well or moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is the most common type of gallbladder carcinoma and is characterized by the presence of malignant tubular glands. Intestinal differentiation may be present.
gallbladder adenocarcinoma, gastric foveolar type	An unusual, well differentiated adenocarcinoma that arises from the gallbladder. It is characterized by the presence of tall malignant columnar cells with mucin-containing cytoplasm and basally located nuclei.
extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma, biliary type	A well or moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of malignant tubular glands.
extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma, gastric foveolar type	An unusual, well differentiated adenocarcinoma that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts. It is characterized by the presence of tall malignant columnar cells with mucin-containing cytoplasm and basally located nuclei.
extrahepatic bile duct mcn with an associated invasive carcinoma	A mucinous cystic neoplasm that arises from the extrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component.
extrahepatic bile duct ipn with an associated invasive carcinoma	A papillary neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of the extrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component. The carcinomatous component is an adenocarcinoma.
intrahepatic bile duct intraductal papillary neoplasm with an associated invasive carcinoma	A papillary neoplasm that arises from the epithelium of the intrahepatic bile ducts and it is associated with an invasive carcinomatous component. The carcinomatous component is an intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.
pancreatobiliary-type carcinoma (morphologic abnormality)	An invasive adenocarcinoma that arises from the ampulla of Vater. It is characterized by the presence of malignant cells that resemble the malignant cells of the pancreatic ductal or extrahepatic bile duct carcinomas.
mixed acinar-ductal carcinoma	A carcinoma that arises from the pancreas showing either extensive mucin accumulation and acinar neoplastic cells or a mixture of columnar or signet-ring cells and acinar neoplastic cells.
intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma recurrent	The reemergence of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma after a period of remission.
sb-ipmn	An intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas that arises in one of the branches of the main pancreatic duct. It usually has an indolent behavior.
main duct pancreatic intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm	An intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas that arises from the main pancreatic duct.
mixed type ipmn	An intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas that arises primarily from the main pancreatic duct and extends to the branch ducts.
stage iva colon cancer ajcc v7	Stage IVA includes: Any T, Any N, M1a. M1a: Metastasis confined to one organ or site (e.g., liver, lung, ovary, nonregional node). (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iic colon cancer	Stage IIC includes: T4b, N0, M0. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage ivb colon cancer	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1b. M1b: Metastases in more than one organ/site or the peritoneum. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiic rectal cancer	Stage IIIC includes: (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiib rectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIIB includes: (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iiia rectal cancer	Stage IIIA includes: (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iic rectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIC includes: T4b, N0, M0. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iib rectal cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIB includes: T4a, N0, M0. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iia rectal cancer	Stage IIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
childhood adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A rare pheochromocytoma of the adrenal gland that occurs during childhood.
childhood ovarian nongerminomatous germ cell tumor	A nongerminomatous germ cell tumor that arises in the ovary and occurs in children.
metastatic cholangiocarcinoma	A cholangiocarcinoma that has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
myeloid sarcoma of the small intestine	An extramedullary myeloid tumor that arises from the small intestine. It often presents with abdominal pain and obstruction.
pancreatic ipmn	A usually slow-growing epithelial neoplasm with ductal differentiation that arises from the exocrine pancreas and grows mostly within the pancreatic ducts. Grossly, it is characterized by the presence of intraductal masses. Morphologically, there is proliferation of mucin-producing cells within the pancreatic ducts, intraductal accumulation of mucin, and a papillary growth pattern. It may be associated with the presence of an invasive carcinoma. It usually occurs in older patients. Signs and symptoms include epigastric pain, weight loss, jaundice, chronic pancreatitis, and diabetes mellitus.
stage i rectal carcinoma	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage i colorectal cancer	Cancer has spread from the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon and/or rectal wall to the submucosa (layer of tissue under the mucosa) of the colon and/or rectal wall. Cancer may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon and/or rectal wall.
stage i rectosigmoid cancer ajcc v6 and v7	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
dukes a carcinoma of the colon	Stage I includes: (T1, N0, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage 0 hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0. Tis: Carcinoma in situ/high grade dysplasia. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage i hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor confined to the bile duct, with extension up to the muscle layer or fibrous tissue. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage ii perihilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage II includes: T2a-b, N0, M0. T2a: Tumor invading beyond the wall of the bile duct to surrounding adipose tissue. T2b: Tumor invading adjacent hepatic parenchyma. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iiia hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invading unilateral branches of the portal vein or hepatic artery. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iva hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVA includes: Any T, N2, M0. N2: Four or more positive lymph nodes involving the hilar, cystic duct, common bile duct, hepatic artery, posterior pancreatoduodenal, and portal vein lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage ivb hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage 0 distal bile duct cancer ajcc v8	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0. Tis: Carcinoma in situ/high-grade dysplasia. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iia distal bile duct cancer ajcc v8	Stage IIA includes: (T1, N1, M0); (T2, N0, M0). T1: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth less than 5 mm. T2: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth of 5-12 mm. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in one to three regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iib distal bile duct cancer ajcc v8	Stage IIB includes: (T2, N1, M0); (T3, N0, M0); (T3, N1, M0). T2: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth of 5-12 mm. T3: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth greater than 12 mm. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in one to three regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iii extrahepatic (distal) bile duct cancer	Stage III includes: IIIA: (T1, N2, M0); (T2, N2, M0); (T3, N2, M0); IIIB: (T4, N0, M0); (T4, N1, M0); (T4, N2, M0). T1: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth less than 5 mm. T2: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth of 5-12 mm. T3: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth greater than 12 mm. T4: Tumor involving the celiac axis, superior mesenteric artery, and/or common hepatic artery. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in one to three regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iv extrahepatic (distal) bile duct cancer	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage ii rectosigmoid cancer	Stage II includes: IIA (T3, N0, M0); IIB (T4a, N0, M0); IIC (T4b, N0, M0). T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iii rectosigmoid cancer	Stage III includes: IIIA (T1-T2, N1/N1c, M0); (T1, N2a, M0); IIIB (T3-T4a, N1/N1c, M0); (T2-T3, N2a, M0); (T1-T2, N2b, M0); IIIC (T4a, N2a, M0); (T3-T4a, N2b, M0); (T4b, N1-N2, M0). T1: Tumor invades submucosa. T2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues. T4a: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum. T4b: Tumor directly invades or is adherent to other organs or structures. N1: Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes. N1c: Tumor deposit(s) in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional lymph node metastasis. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. N2a: Metastasis in 4-6 regional lymph nodes. N2b: Metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 7th ed.)
stage iv rectosigmoid cancer ajcc v7	Stage IV includes: IVA: (Any T, Any N, M1a); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1b). M1a: Metastasis confined to one organ or site (e.g., liver, lung, ovary, nonregional node). M1b: Metastases in more than one organ/site or the peritoneum. (AJCC 7th ed.)
gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma by ajcc v8 stage	A term that refers to the staging of gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition.
gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma by ajcc v8 clinical stage	A term that refers to the clinical staging of gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition.
clinical stage 0 gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0. Tis: High-grade dysplasia, defined as malignant cells confined to the epithelium by the basement membrane. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage i gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage ii gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage II includes: IIA: T1, N1, M0; IIB: T2, N0, M0. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage iia gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIA includes: T1, N1, M0. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage iib gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIB includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage iii gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage III includes: (T2, N1, M0); (T3, N0-1, M0); (T4a, N0-1, M0). T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage iv gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IV includes: IVA: (T1-4a, N2, M0); (T4b, N0-2, M0); (Any T, N3, M0); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1). T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. T4b: Tumor invades other adjacent structures, such as the aorta, vertebral body, or airway. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. N3: Tumor with metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage iva gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVA includes: (T1-4a, N2, M0); (T4b, N0-2, M0); (Any T, N3, M0). T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. T4b: Tumor invades other adjacent structures, such as the aorta, vertebral body, or airway. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. N3: Tumor with metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
clinical stage ivb gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma by ajcc v8 ptnm stage	A term that refers to the pathologic staging of gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition.
pathologic stage 0 gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0, GN/A. Tis: High-grade dysplasia, defined as malignant cells confined to the epithelium by the basement membrane. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. GN/A: Grade non-applicable. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage i gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage I includes: IA: (T1a, N0, M0, G1); (T1a, N0, M0, GX); IB: (T1a, N0, M0, G2); (T1b, N0, M0, G1-2); (T1b, N0, M0, GX); IC: (T1, N0, M0, G3); (T2, N0, M0, G1-2). T1a: Tumor invades the lamina propria or muscularis mucosae. T1b: Tumor invades the submucosa. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. G1: Well-differentiated. GX: Grade cannot be assessed. G2: Moderately differentiated. G3: Poorly differentiated, undifferentiated. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage ia gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IA includes: (T1a, N0, M0, G1); (T1a, N0, M0, GX). T1a: Tumor invades the lamina propria or muscularis mucosae. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. G1: Well-differentiated. GX: Grade cannot be assessed. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage ib gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IB includes: (T1a, N0, M0, G2); (T1b, N0, M0, G1-2); (T1b, N0, M0, GX). T1a: Tumor invades the lamina propria or muscularis mucosae. T1b: Tumor invades the submucosa. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. G1: Well-differentiated. GX: Grade cannot be assessed. G2: Moderately differentiated. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage ic gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IC includes: (T1, N0, M0, G3); (T2, N0, M0, G1-2). T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. G1: Well-differentiated. G2: Moderately differentiated. G3: Poorly differentiated, undifferentiated. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage ii gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage II includes: IIA: (T2, N0, M0, G3); (T2, N0, M0, GX); IIB: (T1, N1, M0, Any G); (T3, N0, M0, Any G). T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. GX: Grade cannot be assessed. G3: Poorly differentiated, undifferentiated. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage iia gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIA includes: (T2, N0, M0, G3); (T2, N0, M0, GX). T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. GX: Grade cannot be assessed. G3: Poorly differentiated, undifferentiated. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage iib gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIB includes: (T1, N1, M0, Any G); (T3, N0, M0, Any G). T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage iii gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage III includes: IIIA: (T1, N2, M0, Any G); (T2, N1, M0, Any G); IIIB: (T2, N2, M0, Any G); (T3, N1-2, M0, Any G); (T4a, N0-1, M0, Any G). T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage iiia gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIIA includes: (T1, N2, M0, Any G); (T2, N1, M0, Any G). T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage iiib gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIIB includes: (T2, N2, M0, Any G); (T3, N1-2, M0, Any G); (T4a, N0-1, M0, Any G). T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage iv gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IV includes: IVA: (T4a, N2, M0, Any G); (T4b, N0-2, M0, Any G); (Any T, N3, M0, Any G); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1, Any G). T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. T4b: Tumor invades other adjacent structures, such as the aorta, vertebral body, or airway. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. N3: Tumor with metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage iva gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVA includes: (T4a, N2, M0, Any G); (T4b, N0-2, M0, Any G); (Any T, N3, M0, Any G). T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. T4b: Tumor invades other adjacent structures, such as the aorta, vertebral body, or airway. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. N3: Tumor with metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
pathologic stage ivb gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1, Any G. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma by ajcc v8 postneoadjuvant therapy stage	A term that refers to the postneoadjuvant therapy staging of gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition.
postneoadjuvant therapy stage i gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage I includes: T0-2, N0, M0. T0: No evidence of primary tumor. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
postneoadjuvant therapy stage ii gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage II includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
postneoadjuvant therapy stage iii gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage III includes: IIIA: (T0-2, N1, M0); IIIB: (T3, N1, M0); (T0-3, N2, M0); (T4a, N0, M0). T0: No evidence of primary tumor. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
postneoadjuvant therapy stage iiia gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIIA includes: T0-2, N1, M0. T0: No evidence of primary tumor. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
postneoadjuvant therapy stage iiib gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIIB includes: (T3, N1, M0); (T0-3, N2, M0); (T4a, N0, M0). T0: No evidence of primary tumor. T1: Tumor invades the lamina propria, muscularis mucosae, or submucosa. T2: Tumor invades the muscularis propria. T3: Tumor invades adventitia. T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
postneoadjuvant therapy stage iv gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IV includes: IVA: (T4a, N1-2, M0); (T4a, NX, M0); (T4b, N0-2, M0); (Any T, N3, M0); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1). T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. T4b: Tumor invades other adjacent structures, such as the aorta, vertebral body, or airway. NX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. N3: Tumor with metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
postneoadjuvant therapy stage iva gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVA includes: (T4a, N1-2, M0); (T4a, NX, M0); (T4b, N0-2, M0); (Any T, N3, M0). T4a: Tumor invades the pleura, pericardium, azygos vein, diaphragm, or peritoneum. T4b: Tumor invades other adjacent structures, such as the aorta, vertebral body, or airway. NX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Tumor with metastasis in one or two regional lymph nodes. N2: Tumor with metastasis in three to six regional lymph nodes. N3: Tumor with metastasis in seven or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
postneoadjuvant therapy stage ivb gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IVB includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma by ajcc v7 stage	A term that refers to the staging of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 7th edition.
hilar cholangiocarcinoma by ajcc v7 stage	A term that refers to the staging of hilar cholangiocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 7th edition.
perihilar cholangiocarcinoma by ajcc v8 stage	A term that refers to the staging of hilar cholangiocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition. Hilar well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors and sarcomas are not staged using this staging system. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage iii hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage III includes: IIIA: (T3, N0, M0); IIIB: (T4, N0, M0); IIIC: (Any T, N1, M0). T3: Tumor invading unilateral branches of the portal vein or hepatic artery. T4: Tumor invading the main portal vein or its branches bilaterally, or the common hepatic artery; or unilateral second-order biliary radicals with contralateral portal vein or hepatic artery involvement. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: One to three positive lymph nodes typically involving the hilar, cystic duct, common bile duct, hepatic artery, posterior pancreatoduodenal, and portal vein lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iiic perihilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIIC includes: Any T, N1, M0. N1: One to three positive lymph nodes typically involving the hilar, cystic duct, common bile duct, hepatic artery, posterior pancreatoduodenal, and portal vein lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iv hilar cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IV includes: IVA: (Any T, N2, M0); IVB: (Any T, Any N, M1). N2: Four or more positive lymph nodes involving the hilar, cystic duct, common bile duct, hepatic artery, posterior pancreatoduodenal, and portal vein lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma by ajcc v8 stage	A term that refers to the staging of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition.
stage 0 intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage 0 includes: Tis, N0, M0. Tis: Carcinoma in situ (intraductal tumor). N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage i intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage I includes: IA (T1a, N0, M0); IB (T1b, N0, M0). T1a: Solitary tumor equal or less than 5 cm without vascular invasion. T1b: Solitary tumor larger than 5 cm without vascular invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage ia intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IA includes: T1a, N0, M0. T1a: Solitary tumor equal or less than 5 cm without vascular invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage ib intrahepatic bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)	Stage IB includes: T1b, N0, M0. T1b: Solitary tumor larger than 5 cm without vascular invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage ii intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Solitary tumor with intrahepatic vascular invasion, or multiple tumors, with or without vascular invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iii intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage III includes: IIIA: (T3, N0, M0); IIIB: (T4, N0, M0); (Any T, N1, M0). T3: Tumor perforating the visceral peritoneum. T4: Tumor involving local extrahepatic structures by direct invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iiib intrahepatic bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)	Stage IIIB includes: (T4, N0, M0); (Any T, N1, M0). T4: Tumor involving local extrahepatic structures by direct invasion. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iv intrahepatic bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)	Stage IV includes: Any T, Any N, M1. M1: Distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
distal bile duct cancer by ajcc v7 stage	A term that refers to the staging of distal bile duct cancer according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 7th edition.
distal bile duct carcinoma by ajcc v8 stage	A term that refers to the staging of distal bile duct cancer according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition. This staging system applies to bile duct adenocarcinomas, biliary intraepithelial neoplasia, high-grade neuroendocrine carcinomas, and papillary carcinomas that arise from the distal bile duct. Tumors arising in the ampulla of Vater, sarcomas, and well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors (carcinoids) are not staged using this staging system. (from AJCC 8th Ed.)
stage i distal bile duct cancer ajcc v8	Stage I includes: T1, N0, M0. T1: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth less than 5 mm. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage ii extrahepatic (distal) bile duct cancer	Stage II includes: IIA: (T1, N1, M0); (T2, N0, M0); IIB: (T2, N1, M0); (T3, N0, M0); (T3, N1, M0). T1: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth less than 5 mm. T2: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth of 5-12 mm. T3: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth greater than 12 mm. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in one to three regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iiia extrahepatic (distal) bile duct cancer	Stage IIIA includes: (T1, N2, M0); (T2, N2, M0); (T3, N2, M0). T1: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth less than 5 mm. T2: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth of 5-12 mm. T3: Tumor invading the bile duct wall with a depth greater than 12 mm. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iiib distal bile duct cancer ajcc v7	Stage IIIB includes: (T4, N0, M0); (T4, N1, M0); (T4, N2, M0). T4: Tumor involving the celiac axis, superior mesenteric artery, and/or common hepatic artery. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. N1: Metastasis in one to three regional lymph nodes. N2: Metastasis in four or more regional lymph nodes. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
stage iiia intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ajcc v8	Stage IIIA includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor perforating the visceral peritoneum. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 8th ed.)
chromaffinoma	usually benign, well-encapsulated, lobular, vascular tumor of chromaffin tissue of the adrenal medulla or sympathetic paraganglia; the cardinal symptom, reflecting the increased secretion of epinephrine and norepinephrine, is hypertension, which may be persistent or intermittent.
stage ii ovarian dysgerminoma ajcc v6	Stage II includes: T2, N0, M0. T2: Tumor involves one or both ovaries with pelvic extension and/or implants. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
stage iii ovarian dysgerminoma ajcc v6	Stage III includes: T3, N0, M0. T3: Tumor involves one or both both ovaries with microscopically confirmed peritoneal metastasis outside pelvis. N0: No regional lymph node metastasis. M0: No distant metastasis. (AJCC 6th and 7th eds.)
unresectable intrahepatic bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical removal.
gastric cardia squamous cell carcinoma	A squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the gastric cardia.
metastatic gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma which has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
unresectable gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
resectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma amenable to surgical resection.
recurrent gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent ampulla of vater adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of ampulla of Vater adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	The reemergence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent pancreatic cystadenocarcinoma	The reemergence of pancreatic cystadenocarcinoma after a period of remission.
recurrent pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma	The reemergence of pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma after a period of remission.
locally advanced unresectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes and is not amenable to surgical resection.
localized gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the gastroesophageal junction and has not spread to other anatomic sites.
locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
advanced gastric small cell carcinoma	A gastric small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
advanced small intestinal small cell carcinoma	A small intestinal small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
resectable pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma	Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
resectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
resectable extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma	Extrahepatic bile duct adenocarcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
locally advanced pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
unresectable adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	Adrenal gland pheochromocytoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
locally advanced adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	Adrenal gland pheochromocytoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
familial adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A familial adrenal gland pheochromocytoma caused by mutations in SDHB, SDHC, and SDHD genes.
borderline resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma	A pancreatic adenocarcinoma term that refers to a continuum between resectable and locally advanced unresectable disease.
refractory cholangiocarcinoma	Cholangiocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
refractory adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	A pheochromocytoma that does not respond to treatment.
metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the exocrine pancreatic ducts and has metastasized to other anatomic sites.
early stage pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that has not spread beyond the pancreas.
advanced gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
advanced adrenal gland pheochromocytoma	An adrenal gland pheochromocytoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
refractory pancreatic adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
unresectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
locally advanced unresectable gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes and is not amenable to surgical resection.
advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
metastatic colorectal mucinous adenocarcinoma	Colorectal mucinous adenocarcinoma that has spread from the original site of growth to other anatomic sites.
refractory gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that does not respond to treatment.
advanced cholangiocarcinoma	A cholangiocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
locally advanced gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that has spread to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
peritoneal epithelioid mesothelioma	Malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum. It is characterized by the presence of cells with epithelioid morphology. The epithelioid cells usually have eosinophilic cytoplasm, bland nuclei, and form tubulopapillary, microglandular, or sheet-like patterns.
advanced pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
unresectable periampullary adenocarcinoma	Adenocarcinoma that arises from the periampullary region and is not amenable to surgical resection.
refractory pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
american college of cardiology/american heart association pediatric and congenital cardiology terminology	Terminology used in support of the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association's (AHA) efforts to collect key elements pertaining to clinical data obtained from electronic health records with a focus on pediatric and congenital cardiology.
refractory metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma	Metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
peritoneal sarcomatoid mesothelioma	Malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum. It is characterized by the presence of spindle cells. Anaplastic morphologic features and multinucleated malignant cells may also be seen.
peritoneal biphasic mesothelioma	Malignant mesothelioma that arises from the peritoneum. It is characterized by the presence of epithelioid and sarcomatoid components, with each component representing at least 10% of the tumor.
locally advanced cholangiocarcinoma	Cholangiocarcinoma that has spread to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
localized pancreatic adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas and has not spread to other anatomic sites.
distal cholangiocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the common bile duct distal to the insertion of the cystic duct.
gallbladder intracholecystic papillary (tubular) neoplasm with an associated invasive carcinoma	An intracholecystic papillary neoplasm, usually with high grade intraepithelial neoplasia, that arises from the gallbladder. It is associated with the presence of an invasive carcinoma. The carcinomatous component is an adenocarcinoma.
pancreatic intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm, low-grade	A non-invasive pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm characterized by the presence of neoplastic epithelial cells that form a single layer and are well polarized. The neoplastic cells exhibit small and uniform nuclei, mild pleomorphism, and rare mitotic figures.
resectable periampullary adenocarcinoma	Periampullary adenocarcinoma that is amenable to surgical removal.
metastatic rectal squamous cell carcinoma	Rectal squamous cell carcinoma that has spread from the original site of growth to other anatomic sites.
advanced rectal squamous cell carcinoma	Rectal squamous cell carcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
locally advanced rectal squamous cell carcinoma	Rectal squamous cell carcinoma that has spread to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
unresectable distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	Distal bile duct adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
metastatic distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	Distal bile duct adenocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to another anatomic site.
pancreatic poorly cohesive adenocarcinoma	An adenocarcinoma that arises from the pancreas and is characterized by the presence of isolated malignant cells or malignant cells that form small aggregates.
pancreatic undifferentiated rhabdoid carcinoma	An undifferentiated carcinoma that arises from the pancreas. It is characterized by the presence of rhabdoid cells.
pancreatic invasive micropapillary carcinoma	An invasive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma characterized by the presence of clusters of malignant cells located within artifactual clear stromal spaces.
unresectable peritoneal malignant mesothelioma	Peritoneal malignant mesothelioma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
unresectable peritoneal epithelioid mesothelioma	Peritoneal epithelioid mesothelioma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
unresectable peritoneal sarcomatoid mesothelioma	Peritoneal sarcomatoid mesothelioma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
unresectable peritoneal biphasic mesothelioma	Peritoneal biphasic mesothelioma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
locally advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
refractory intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
resectable pancreatic adenosquamous carcinoma	Pancreatic adenosquamous carcinoma that is amenable to surgical resection.
large duct intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	An intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that arises from the intrahepatic large bile ducts.
refractory distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	Distal bile duct adenocarcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
metastatic distal bile duct carcinoma	A distal bile duct carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to other anatomic sites.
locally advanced distal bile duct carcinoma	Distal bile duct carcinoma that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes.
unresectable small intestinal adenocarcinoma	Small intestinal adenocarcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection.
advanced distal bile duct adenocarcinoma	Distal bile duct adenocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that has spread extensively to other anatomic sites or is no longer responding to treatment.
refractory rectal squamous cell carcinoma	Rectal squamous cell carcinoma that is resistant to treatment.
muscles of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
musculus quadratus lumborum	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
abdominal muscle	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
anterior muscle of abdomen	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
muscle of trunk	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the trunk. Examples: external intercostal muscle, external oblique, levator ani.
set of muscles of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
muscle trunk	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the trunk. Examples: external intercostal muscle, external oblique, levator ani.
musculi abdominis	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
quadratus lumborum	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
muscle of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
structure of anterior muscle of abdomen (body structure)	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
muscle of abdomen, nos	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
structure of anterior muscle of abdomen	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
skeletal muscle structure of abdomen (body structure)	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
quadratus lumborum muscle	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
musculature of abdominal wall	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
muscle of anterior abdominal wall	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
diaphragms, respiratory	The musculofibrous partition that separates the THORACIC CAVITY from the ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Contraction of the diaphragm increases the volume of the thoracic cavity aiding INHALATION.
structure of psoas muscle (body structure)	A powerful flexor of the thigh at the hip joint (psoas major) and a weak flexor of the trunk and lumbar spinal column (psoas minor). Psoas is derived from the Greek "psoa", the plural meaning "muscles of the loin". It is a common site of infection manifesting as abscess (PSOAS ABSCESS). The psoas muscles and their fibers are also used frequently in experiments in muscle physiology.
abdominal wall muscle	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
recti abdominis	A long flat muscle that extends along the whole length of both sides of the abdomen. It flexes the vertebral column, particularly the lumbar portion; it also tenses the anterior abdominal wall and assists in compressing the abdominal contents. It is frequently the site of hematomas. In RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGICAL PROCEDURES it is often used for the creation of MYOCUTANEOUS FLAP. (From Gray's Anatomy, 30th American ed, p491)
abdominals transverse	An anterolateral muscle of the abdomen which attaches to the thoracolumbar fascia, iliac crest, inguinal ligament, and the costal cartilages of the lower ribs, and which continues anteriorly as the transverse abdominis aponeurosis, which inserts into the linea alba, the pubic crest, and the pectineal line.
structure of quadratus lumborum muscle (body structure)	A rectangular-shaped muscle of the posterior abdominal wall that takes its origin from the iliac crest and iliolumbar ligament, and inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae; it functions to flex the vertebral column, and also acts as a muscle of inspiration.
skeletal muscle structure of pelvis	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the pelvis. Examples: levator ani,
abdominal musculature	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
anterior abdominal wall muscle	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
abdomen>abdominal wall	The outer margins of the ABDOMEN, extending from the osteocartilaginous thoracic cage to the PELVIS. Though its major part is muscular, the abdominal wall consists of at least seven layers: the SKIN, subcutaneous fat, deep FASCIA; ABDOMINAL MUSCLES, transversalis fascia, extraperitoneal fat, and the parietal PERITONEUM.
abdominal exercises (regime/therapy)	Facilitating exercise of a client's abdominal muscles for therapeutic effect(s) (for example, to prevent lower back injury). Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
abdominal exercise individual each 15 minutes	Facilitating exercise of a client's abdominal muscles for therapeutic effect(s) (for example, to prevent lower back injury). Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
skeletal muscle structure of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
musculature of abdomen	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
psoas muscle	A powerful flexor of the thigh at the hip joint (psoas major) and a weak flexor of the trunk and lumbar spinal column (psoas minor). Psoas is derived from the Greek "psoa", the plural meaning "muscles of the loin". It is a common site of infection manifesting as abscess (PSOAS ABSCESS). The psoas muscles and their fibers are also used frequently in experiments in muscle physiology.
abdominis rectus	A long flat muscle that extends along the whole length of both sides of the abdomen. It flexes the vertebral column, particularly the lumbar portion; it also tenses the anterior abdominal wall and assists in compressing the abdominal contents. It is frequently the site of hematomas. In RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGICAL PROCEDURES it is often used for the creation of MYOCUTANEOUS FLAP. (From Gray's Anatomy, 30th American ed, p491)
transversus abdominis	An anterolateral muscle of the abdomen which attaches to the thoracolumbar fascia, iliac crest, inguinal ligament, and the costal cartilages of the lower ribs, and which continues anteriorly as the transverse abdominis aponeurosis, which inserts into the linea alba, the pubic crest, and the pectineal line.
muscle, abdominal	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
skeletal muscle structure of trunk (body structure)	Muscle (organ) which is a part of the trunk. Examples: external intercostal muscle, external oblique, levator ani.
abdominal muscles	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
abd ex.ndvdl ea.15min	Facilitating exercise of a client's abdominal muscles for therapeutic effect(s) (for example, to prevent lower back injury). Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
abdomen--muscles	Muscles forming the ABDOMINAL WALL including RECTUS ABDOMINIS; ABDOMINAL OBLIQUE MUSCLES, transversus abdominis, pyramidalis muscles and quadratus abdominis.
pelvic floor muscle	The muscles, composed of the levator ani and the coccygeus muscles, that create a division between the pelvic cavity and the perineal region.
deep abdominal muscle	The group of muscles in the torso that are closest to the spine and furthest from the skin such as the psoas muscle and the quadratus lumborum.
superficial abdominal muscle	Any one of the anterior or anterolateral abdominal wall muscles, including the cremaster muscle, pyramidalis muscle, external oblique, internal oblique, transversus abdominis, and rectus abdominis muscles.
anterior abdominal wall musculature	A muscle located in the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall.
muscle	Nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of skeletal muscle tissue aggregated into macroscopic fasciculi by connective tissue; together with other muscles, it constitutes the muscular system. Examples: biceps, diaphragm, masseter, right third external intercostal muscle, external oblique, levator ani, serratus anterior.
musculoskeletal system	The MUSCLES, bones (BONE AND BONES), and CARTILAGE of the body.
cdisc send biospecimens terminology	A terminology set that includes concepts relevant to CDISC SEND biospecimens.
cdisc send terminology	The terminology subset that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Standard for Exchange of Non-clinical Data (SEND) group.
abducent nerves	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
cranial nerves	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
nerve vi, cranial	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
peripheral nervous system structure	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
nervi craniales	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
abductor digiti minimi	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
nervous peripheral system	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
traumatic injury of abducens nerve	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
abducent nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
cranial nerve	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
peripheral nervous system	The nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system has autonomic and somatic divisions. The autonomic nervous system includes the enteric, parasympathetic, and sympathetic subdivisions. The somatic nervous system includes the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors.
abducent nerve [vi]	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
lateral rectus muscle structure	A muscle attaching to the lateral surface of the orbit that abducts the eye.
nerve vi	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
pons cerebelli	The front part of the hindbrain (RHOMBENCEPHALON) that lies between the MEDULLA and the midbrain (MESENCEPHALON) ventral to the cerebellum. It is composed of two parts, the dorsal and the ventral. The pons serves as a relay station for neural pathways between the CEREBELLUM to the CEREBRUM.
abducens nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
cranial nerve structure (body structure)	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
nervus abducen	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
visual structure	The eye, ocular adnexa, afferent visual pathways, efferent visual pathways, and pupil innervation pathways
cranial nerve vi	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
visual structure (body structure)	The eye, ocular adnexa, afferent visual pathways, efferent visual pathways, and pupil innervation pathways
abducens nerve structure (body structure)	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
duane's syndrome	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
nervus abducens [vi]	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
tolosa-hunt syndrome	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
lateral rectus nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
nervus abducens	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
abducen, nervus	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
sixth cranial nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
abducens nerve tree	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
abducens nerve [vi]	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
tolosa-hunt syndrome (disorder)	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
cranial nerve, sixth	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
syndrome tolosa-hunt	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
abducens, nervus	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
abducens nerve structure	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
traumatic abducens nerve injury	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
nerve vis	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
injury of abducent nerve	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
mobius syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
abducens nerve dis	Sjukdomar i den 6. kranialnerven (abducens) eller dess kärna i hjärnbryggan (pons). Defekter hos nerven orsakar svaghet i ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis), vilken leder till horisontellt d ubbelseende och skelning (esotropi). Vanliga orsaker till nervskada är högt intrakraniellt blodtryck, skallskador, ischemi eller infratentoriella tumörer.
6n	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
sixth cranial nerve disease (disorder)	Sjukdomar i den 6. kranialnerven (abducens) eller dess kärna i hjärnbryggan (pons). Defekter hos nerven orsakar svaghet i ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis), vilken leder till horisontellt d ubbelseende och skelning (esotropi). Vanliga orsaker till nervskada är högt intrakraniellt blodtryck, skallskador, ischemi eller infratentoriella tumörer.
nerve, abducens	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
raymond-cestan syndrome	Abducent nerve paralysis with contralateral hemiparesis
duane-radial ray syndrome	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
duane anomaly, myopathy, scoliosis syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of bilateral Duane anomaly type 3, severe scoliosis of early onset, congenital myopathy with hypotonia without muscular weakness, delayed motor development, and short stature. It has been described in one pair of siblings. The Duane type 3 anomaly consists of eye abduction and adduction palsy, globe retraction and narrowing of the palpebral fissure. Muscular biopsy shows aspecific myopathy. Intellectual development is normal. The syndrome is most likely inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
palsy, abducens	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
abducent nerve paralysis	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
cranial nerve vis	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
nerves, cranial	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
structure of visual system (body structure)	The eye, ocular adnexa, afferent visual pathways, efferent visual pathways, and pupil innervation pathways
visual system structure	The eye, ocular adnexa, afferent visual pathways, efferent visual pathways, and pupil innervation pathways
syndrome, duane	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
nerve vis, cranial	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
tolosa hunt syndrome	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
nerve (abducens)	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
tolosa-hunt syndrome (diagnosis)	An idiopathic syndrome characterized by the formation of granulation tissue in the anterior cavernous sinus or superior orbital fissure, producing a painful ophthalmoplegia. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p271)
abducens nerve injury	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
nerve traumas, abducens	Skada på abducensnerven (den 6. kranialnerven) genom yttre våld (skallskada, skada i ögonhålan). Sådan skada kan leda till försvagning eller förlamning av ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis).
moebius; congenital oculofacial paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
abducens nerve weakness	Sjukdomar i den 6. kranialnerven (abducens) eller dess kärna i hjärnbryggan (pons). Defekter hos nerven orsakar svaghet i ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis), vilken leder till horisontellt d ubbelseende och skelning (esotropi). Vanliga orsaker till nervskada är högt intrakraniellt blodtryck, skallskador, ischemi eller infratentoriella tumörer.
disorder of abducent nerve	Sjukdomar i den 6. kranialnerven (abducens) eller dess kärna i hjärnbryggan (pons). Defekter hos nerven orsakar svaghet i ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis), vilken leder till horisontellt d ubbelseende och skelning (esotropi). Vanliga orsaker till nervskada är högt intrakraniellt blodtryck, skallskador, ischemi eller infratentoriella tumörer.
raymond-cestan syndrome (disorder)	Abducent nerve paralysis with contralateral hemiparesis
acrorenoocular syndrome	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
abducence nerve	The 6th cranial nerve which originates in the ABDUCENS NUCLEUS of the PONS and sends motor fibers to the lateral rectus muscles of the EYE. Damage to the nerve or its nucleus disrupts horizontal eye movement control.
abducens nerve paralysis	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
abducens nerve palsy	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
nervus cranialis	Twelve pairs of nerves that carry general afferent, visceral afferent, special afferent, somatic efferent, and autonomic efferent fibers.
cranium	The SKELETON of the HEAD including the FACIAL BONES and the bones enclosing the BRAIN.
abducens nucleus	A region in the PONTINE TEGMENTUM that is the nucleus of the ABDUCENS NERVE.
vith nerve disorder	Sjukdomar i den 6. kranialnerven (abducens) eller dess kärna i hjärnbryggan (pons). Defekter hos nerven orsakar svaghet i ögats sidomuskel (musculus rectus lateralis), vilken leder till horisontellt d ubbelseende och skelning (esotropi). Vanliga orsaker till nervskada är högt intrakraniellt blodtryck, skallskador, ischemi eller infratentoriella tumörer.
sdtm	The terminology subset that includes terms pertaining to the CDISC Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM).
clinical data interchange standards consortium terminology	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium.
anatomical location	Terminology codelist used with Anatomical Locations within the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium Study Data Tabulation Model.
abducens nerve paresis	Malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward. Patients who develop abducens nerve palsy often present with binocular horizontal diplopia, which is a double vision when looking at objects side by side. There will be a notable weakness of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle leading to a deficit in of eye abduction on the affected side. Some patients may present with a constant head turning movement to maintain binocular fusion and to lessen the degree of diplopia. [PMID:29489275]
abelson murine leukemia virus	Ett defekt musleukemivirus med förmåga att transformera lymfceller och åstadkomma hastigt fortskridande lymfoid leukemi, efter superinfektion med Friend-, Moloney- eller Rauschervirus.
murine leukemia virus	Species of GAMMARETROVIRUS, containing many well-defined strains, producing leukemia in mice. Disease is commonly induced by injecting filtrates of propagable tumors into newborn mice.
a-mulv	Ett defekt musleukemivirus med förmåga att transformera lymfceller och åstadkomma hastigt fortskridande lymfoid leukemi, efter superinfektion med Friend-, Moloney- eller Rauschervirus.
v-abl genes	V-ABL is an ABL oncogene of Abelson's murine leukemia virus.
abetalipoproteinemia	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
hypo-beta-lipoproteinemia (disorder)	Conditions with abnormally low levels of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL) in the blood. It is defined as LDL values equal to or less than the 5th percentile for the population. They include the autosomal dominant form involving mutation of the APOLIPOPROTEINS B gene, and the autosomal recessive form involving mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein. All are characterized by low LDL and dietary fat malabsorption.
microsomal triglyceride transfer protein defic	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
spur cell anaemia	Acanthocytosis is a type of poikilocytosis characterized by the presence of spikes on the cell surface. The cells have an irregular shape resembling many-pointed stars. [HPO:probinson]
abl - abetalipoproteinaemia	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
ataxia	Impairment of the ability to perform smoothly coordinated voluntary movements. This condition may affect the limbs, trunk, eyes, pharynx, larynx, and other structures. Ataxia may result from impaired sensory or motor function. Sensory ataxia may result from posterior column injury or PERIPHERAL NERVE DISEASES. Motor ataxia may be associated with CEREBELLAR DISEASES; CEREBRAL CORTEX diseases; THALAMIC DISEASES; BASAL GANGLIA DISEASES; injury to the RED NUCLEUS; and other conditions.
microsomal triglyceride transfer protein deficiency	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
myelinoclasis	Breakdown, or abnormal development, of a nerve fiber myelin sheath.
bassen kornzweig syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
retinal disease	Diseases involving the RETINA.
abetalipoproteinaemia	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
autosomal recessive inheritance	Autosomal recessive inheritance refers to genetic conditions that occur only when mutations are present in both copies of a given gene (i.e., the person is homozygous for a mutation, or carries two different mutations of the same gene, a state referred to as compound heterozygosity).
bassen-kornzweig syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
fat malabsorption	Abnormality of the absorption of fat from the gastrointestinal tract. [HPO:probinson]
acanthocytosis	Acanthocytosis is a type of poikilocytosis characterized by the presence of spikes on the cell surface. The cells have an irregular shape resembling many-pointed stars. [HPO:probinson]
microsomal triglyceride transfer protein deficiency disease	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
rndx metabolic	Generic term for diseases caused by an abnormal metabolic process. It can be congenital due to inherited enzyme abnormality (METABOLISM, INBORN ERRORS) or acquired due to disease of an endocrine organ or failure of a metabolically important organ such as the liver. (Stedman, 26th ed)
abetalipoproteinemia (disorder)	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
disorder of lipid metabolism	Pathological conditions resulting from abnormal anabolism or catabolism of lipids in the body.
acanthocytoses	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
rare non-neoplastic disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that is rare.
cellosaurus disease terminology	CELLOSAURUS is a knowledge resource on cell lines. It attempts to describe all cell lines used in biomedical research. It includes immortalized cell lines; naturally immortal cell lines (such as stem cell lines); finite life cell lines when those are distributed and used widely. It encompasses vertebrate cell lines, with an emphasis on human, mouse and rat cell lines, and invertebrate (insects and ticks) cell lines. The Cellosaurus disease terminology is the set of terms used to annotate cell lines originating from a diseased patient or animal. For inherited diseases, the relevant terms are only applied to cell lines originating from individuals suffering or at risk for a disease and not for individuals that are carriers for such disease. For cancers, the relevant terms are only applied to cell lines established from a cancerous tissue. The Cellosaurus (https://web.expasy.org/cellosaurus/) is developed by Dr. Amos Bairoch of the CALIPHO group (https://www.sib.swiss/amos-bairoch-lydie-lane-group) at the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (https://www.sib.swiss).
ldl low	An decreased concentration of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood. [HPO:gcarletti]
lipoprotein deficiency	presence of abnormally low levels of lipoproteins in the serum.
hypolipoproteinemia	presence of abnormally low levels of lipoproteins in the serum.
body system	Anatomical structure, which consists of members of predominantly one organ subclass; these members are interconnected by zones of continuity. Examples: skeletal system, cardiovascular system, alimentary system.
bassen kornzweig disease	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
congenital	Denoting something that is present at birth.
diseases, betalipoprotein deficiency	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
congenital, familial and genetic disorders (smq)	This SMQ is a sub-search of SMQ Pregnancy and neonatal topics. For detailed description, please refer to the one in SMQ Pregnancy and neonatal topics.
deficiency diseases, betalipoprotein	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
bassen-kornzweig	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
abl - abetalipoproteinemia	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
bassen kornzweig dis	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
microsomal triglyceride transfer protein defic dis	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
lipoprotein deficiency disorder	presence of abnormally low levels of lipoproteins in the serum.
disorders of lipid metabolism	Pathological conditions resulting from abnormal anabolism or catabolism of lipids in the body.
abl	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
lipoprotein; deficiency	presence of abnormally low levels of lipoproteins in the serum.
fat disorder	Pathological conditions resulting from abnormal anabolism or catabolism of lipids in the body.
hypolipoproteinaemia (disorder)	presence of abnormally low levels of lipoproteins in the serum.
bassen-kornzweig disease	An autosomal recessive disorder of lipid metabolism. It is caused by mutation of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein that catalyzes the transport of lipids (TRIGLYCERIDES; CHOLESTEROL ESTERS; PHOSPHOLIPIDS) and is required in the secretion of BETA-LIPOPROTEINS (low density lipoproteins or LDL). Features include defective intestinal lipid absorption, very low serum cholesterol level, and near absent LDL.
malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
hereditary disease	general term for any disorder caused by a genetic mechanism, comprising chromosome aberrations or anomalies, mendelian or monogenic or single-gene disorders, and multifactorial disorders; note that all genetic disorders are not treed under this term; see RTs for others; in addition, many disorders not treed here or under RTs may have a genetic component.
congenital deformity	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
anatomic abnormality	An anatomic abnormality that is either present at birth or appears later in life.
congenital abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
teratogenesis	The result of processes that negatively affect a developing fetus.
congenital anomaly nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital or acquired anatomic abnormality	An anatomic abnormality that is either present at birth or appears later in life.
developmental disturbance	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
fetal disorders (smq)	SMQ Pregnancy and neonatal topics was developed to replace original SMQ Adverse pregnancy outcome/reproductive toxicity (incl neonatal disorders) which had discrepancies in term inclusion resulting in maintenance issues. It was also developed to be more compatible with regulatory goals related to pregnancy and neonatal topics. Lactation associated disorders (functional and related to neonatal exposures through breast milk) are also in this SMQ, but fertility-related topics and developmental disorders are not. Referenced during construction of this SMQ was EMA's Guideline on the Exposure to Medicinal Products during Pregnancy: Need for Post-Authorisation Data in which pregnancy outcomes are defined as: Live birth, normal; Live birth, abnormal (including pre-term, term, and post-term birth; small for gestational age infants/ Intrauterine growth retardation; drug withdrawal syndrome in the neonate; malformations; and morbidity); Fetal death (including ectopic, miscarriage and stillbirth); and Termination of pregnancy. Sub-search SMQ Foetal disorders relates to issues concerning the condition of the fetus.
congenital deformity, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital anomaly nos (disorder)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
scong	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
fetal developmental abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
dysgenesis	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
developmental anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
defects, congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital anatomical abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital; deformity	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
developmental defect, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
foetal developmental abnormality	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
congenital deformity (morphologic abnormality)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
foetal disorders (smq)	SMQ Pregnancy and neonatal topics was developed to replace original SMQ Adverse pregnancy outcome/reproductive toxicity (incl neonatal disorders) which had discrepancies in term inclusion resulting in maintenance issues. It was also developed to be more compatible with regulatory goals related to pregnancy and neonatal topics. Lactation associated disorders (functional and related to neonatal exposures through breast milk) are also in this SMQ, but fertility-related topics and developmental disorders are not. Referenced during construction of this SMQ was EMA's Guideline on the Exposure to Medicinal Products during Pregnancy: Need for Post-Authorisation Data in which pregnancy outcomes are defined as: Live birth, normal; Live birth, abnormal (including pre-term, term, and post-term birth; small for gestational age infants/ Intrauterine growth retardation; drug withdrawal syndrome in the neonate; malformations; and morbidity); Fetal death (including ectopic, miscarriage and stillbirth); and Termination of pregnancy. Sub-search SMQ Foetal disorders relates to issues concerning the condition of the fetus.
congenital disorder (disorder)	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
anomaly anomaly congen	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
prostaglandin pge<sub>1</sub> (substance)	A potent vasodilator agent that increases peripheral blood flow.
imperforate hymen	A congenital disorder where the hymen (a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening) does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina. [PMID:24822139]
sprengel deformity	A congenital skeletal deformity characterized by the elevation of one scapula (thus, one scapula is located superior to the other). [HPO:probinson]
abnormalities	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
arrhinia	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of gallbladder (disorder)	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
deformity	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
renal agenesis, bilateral	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of both kidneys.
foetal malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital cleft larynx (disorder)	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
congenital defects	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
saito kuba tsuruta syndrome	This syndrome has features of fibuloulnar dysostosis with renal anomalies. It has been described in two siblings born to nonconsanguinous parents. The syndrome is lethal at birth (respiratory failure). Clinical manifestations include ear and facial anomalies (including micrognathia), symmetrical shortness of long bones, fibular agenesis and hypoplastic ulna, oligosyndactyly, congenital heart defects, and cystic or hypoplastic kidney. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
birth defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
cleft lip-palate, agenesis of clavicles and cervical vertebrae, and talipes equinovarus	A very rare syndrome characterised by poorly mineralised calvarium, facial dysmorphism, vertebral abnormalities and absent clavicles. Nine cases have been reported in the literature so far. Dysmorphic features include micrognathia, cleft palate, hypertelorism and upturned nares. Clavicular aplasia is constant and agenesis of cervical vertebral bodies is frequent. Intra uterine growth retardation is constant. It is most likely that the condition is hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor, the syndrome is almost always lethal soon after birth.
dysgenesis, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
patterson stevenson fontaine syndrome	Features the presence of a usually opposable triphalangeal thumb with or without additional duplication of one or more skeletal components of the thumb. The thumb appearance can differ widely in shape (wedge to rectangular) or it can be deviated in the radio-ulnar plane. Also associated with systemic syndromes including Holt-Oram syndrome.
bresek syndrome	X-linked mental retardation with characteristics of Brain anomalies, severe mental Retardation, Ectodermal dysplasia, Skeletal deformities (vertebral anomalies, scoliosis, polydactyly), Ear/eye anomalies (maldevelopment, small optic nerves, low set and large ears with hearing loss) and Kidney dysplasia/hypoplasia (giving the acronym BRESEK syndrome). It has been described in two brothers, one of whom died shortly after birth. One of the brothers also had Hirschsprung disease and Cleft palate/cryptorchidism (giving the acronym: BRESHECK syndrome). Transmission is X-linked dominant.
disorder birth	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
birth defects	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
hereditary diseases	general term for any disorder caused by a genetic mechanism, comprising chromosome aberrations or anomalies, mendelian or monogenic or single-gene disorders, and multifactorial disorders; note that all genetic disorders are not treed under this term; see RTs for others; in addition, many disorders not treed here or under RTs may have a genetic component.
postnatal growth disorder	physical growth disorders occurring after birth.
developmental abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
drug ind abnorm	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
anomaly; musculoskeletal	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital malformation syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome characterized by the presence of congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or system.
congenital qualifier	Denoting something that is present at birth.
dysmorphism	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital disorder	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
anomalous formation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital anomalies	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
anomaly congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
developmental anomaly, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital anomaly or birth defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital disorders	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
at birth	Denoting something that is present at birth.
congenital malformation, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
malformations multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
albinism (physical finding)	General term for a number of inherited defects of amino acid metabolism in which there is a deficiency or absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, or hair.
congenital malformations	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
chromosomal disorders	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
congenital respiratory tract malformation	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital defect/deformity	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital musculoskeletal deformity	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
limb deformities congen	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
neck; deformity, congenital	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly;nerv sys	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital anomaly of cardiovascular system (disorder)	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
anomalous formation, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
birth disorders	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
congen defects	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
defect, congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
heterotopias	A mass of histologically normal tissue present in an abnormal location.
univentricular heart	An umbrella term used to describe several very different complex congenital heart defects that share the same problem: the heart has only one functional ventricle (anatomically right or left or indeterminate) supplying the systemic circulation. These defects include tricuspid atresia, hypoplastic left or right heart syndrome, double outlet right ventricle, double inlet left ventricle, and other forms of single ventricle defects.
congenital dysplasia	Abnormal tissue formation due to abnormal cellular organization, which may result in a morphologic defect.
congenital failure of fusion	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
vascular malformation	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
abnormality, congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
amniotic band syndrome	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
chiari malformation	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
arteriovenous malformation (morphologic abnormality)	Abnormal formation of blood vessels that shunt arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the CAPILLARIES. They usually are crooked, dilated, and with thick vessel walls. A common type is the congenital arteriovenous fistula. The lack of blood flow and oxygen in the capillaries can lead to tissue damage in the affected areas.
arthrogryposis, congenital multiple	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
amyoplasia congen	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
at, complementation group d	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by choreoathetosis beginning in childhood, progressive CEREBELLAR ATAXIA; TELANGIECTASIS of CONJUNCTIVA and SKIN; DYSARTHRIA; B- and T-cell immunodeficiency, and RADIOSENSITIVITY to IONIZING RADIATION. Affected individuals are prone to recurrent sinobronchopulmonary infections, lymphoreticular neoplasms, and other malignancies. Serum ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS are usually elevated. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p688) The gene for this disorder (ATM) encodes a cell cycle checkpoint protein kinase and has been mapped to chromosome 11 (11q22-q23).
beckwith-wiedemann syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
bladder exstrophy	A birth defect in which the URINARY BLADDER is malformed and exposed, inside out, and protruded through the ABDOMINAL WALL. It is caused by closure defects involving the top front surface of the bladder, as well as the lower abdominal wall; SKIN; MUSCLES; and the pubic bone.
ectopia vesicae	A birth defect in which the URINARY BLADDER is malformed and exposed, inside out, and protruded through the ABDOMINAL WALL. It is caused by closure defects involving the top front surface of the bladder, as well as the lower abdominal wall; SKIN; MUSCLES; and the pubic bone.
abnormal development	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
bloom's syndrome (diagnosis)	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectatic ERYTHEMA of the face, photosensitivity, DWARFISM and other abnormalities, and a predisposition toward developing cancer. The Bloom syndrome gene (BLM) encodes a RecQ-like DNA helicase.
congenital atresia of choana	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal atresia	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
developmental defect	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
ciliary dyskinesias	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
hare lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
congenital malformation, unspecified	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
congenital fissure of lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft upper lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft-palate	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
cleft palate	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
palates, cleft	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
palatoschisis	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
dysostosis; cleidocranial	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
cleidocranial dysostosis	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
cockayne syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple system abnormalities including DWARFISM; PHOTOSENSITIVITY DISORDERS; PREMATURE AGING; and HEARING LOSS. It is caused by mutations of a number of autosomal recessive genes encoding proteins that involve transcriptional-coupled DNA REPAIR processes. Cockayne syndrome is classified by the severity and age of onset. Type I (classical; CSA) is early childhood onset in the second year of life; type II (congenital; CSB) is early onset at birth with severe symptoms; type III (xeroderma pigmentosum; XP) is late childhood onset with mild symptoms.
congenital anomaly (disorder)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
cryptorchidism nos	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
cryptorchidism	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
congenital abnormalities	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
undescended testis	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
dens in dente	Anomaly of the tooth, found chiefly in upper lateral incisors. It is characterized by invagination of the enamel at the incisal edge.
congenital malformation (disorder)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
dentin dysplasia (disorder)	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
defect/deformity, congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
dentinogenesis imperfecta	An autosomal dominant disorder of tooth development characterized by opalescent dentin resulting in discoloration of the teeth. The dentin develops poorly with low mineral content while the pulp canal is obliterated.
congenital malformation (morphologic abnormality)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
abnormal tooth spacing nos	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
diastema of teeth (diagnosis)	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
congenital malformations (diagnosis)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
ellis-van creveld syndrome	Dwarfism occurring in association with defective development of skin, hair, and teeth, polydactyly, and defect of the cardiac septum. (Dorland, 27th ed)
fetal alcohol syndrome	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fragile x syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
tooth; fusion	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
fusion; tooth	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
hallermann's syndrome	An oculomandibulofacial syndrome principally characterized by dyscephaly (usually brachycephaly), parrot nose, mandibular hypoplasia, proportionate nanism, hypotrichosis, bilateral congenital cataracts, and microphthalmia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
cavernous nevus of skin	A vascular anomaly that is a collection of tortuous BLOOD VESSELS and connective tissue. This tumor-like mass with the large vascular space is filled with blood and usually appears as a strawberry-like lesion in the subcutaneous areas of the face, extremities, or other regions of the body including the central nervous system.
strawberry hemangiomas	A vascular anomaly that is a collection of tortuous BLOOD VESSELS and connective tissue. This tumor-like mass with the large vascular space is filled with blood and usually appears as a strawberry-like lesion in the subcutaneous areas of the face, extremities, or other regions of the body including the central nervous system.
hutchinson teeth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
hutchinson's teeth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
congenital anomaly, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
hypodontia	The absence of five or less teeth from the normal series by a failure to develop. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
kartagener syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
fetal malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
syndromes, angioosteohypertrophy	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
syndrome, klippel-trenaunay	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
klippel-trenaunay-weber syndrome	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome ii	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
acrodysplasia vs	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
congenital abnormality nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
langer giedion syndrome	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
laurence-moon syndrome	En autosomalt recessiv sjukdom som kännetecknas av hypogonadism, nedbrytning av ryggmärg och lillhjärna, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, retinitis pigmentosa och fetma. Syndromet kallades Laurence-Moon-Biedls syndrom tills Bardet-Biedls syndrom erkändes som ett självständigt sjukdomstillstånd.
macroglossias	The presence of an excessively large tongue, which may be congenital or may develop as a result of a tumor or edema due to obstruction of lymphatic vessels, or it may occur in association with hyperpituitarism or acromegaly. It also may be associated with malocclusion because of pressure of the tongue on the teeth. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
deformities	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
macrostomia	Greatly exaggerated width of the mouth, resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes, with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear. The defect may be unilateral or bilateral. (Dorland, 27th ed)
hypoplasia of tongue	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
microglossia	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
small oral aperture	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital oral malformation	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
abnormalities, mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
dystrophia myotonica	Neuromuscular disorder characterized by PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR ATROPHY; MYOTONIA, and various multisystem atrophies. Mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may also occur. Abnormal TRINUCLEOTIDE REPEAT EXPANSION in the 3' UNTRANSLATED REGIONS of DMPK PROTEIN gene is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 1. DNA REPEAT EXPANSION of zinc finger protein-9 gene intron is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 2.
fetal anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
teeth present at birth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
developmental malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
familial turner syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
noonans syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
fetal anomaly (diagnosis)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
renal oculocerebrodystrophy	A sex-linked recessive disorder affecting multiple systems including the EYE, the NERVOUS SYSTEM, and the KIDNEY. Clinical features include congenital CATARACT; MENTAL RETARDATION; and renal tubular dysfunction (FANCONI SYNDROME; RENAL TUBULAR ACIDOSIS; X-LINKED HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA or vitamin-D-resistant rickets) and SCOLIOSIS. This condition is due to a deficiency of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-5-phosphatase leading to defects in PHOSPHATIDYLINOSITOL metabolism and INOSITOL signaling pathway. (from Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p60; Am J Hum Genet 1997 Jun;60(6):1384-8)
orodigitofacial dysostosis	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
oral-facial-digital syndrome	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
osteochondrodysplasia	Abnormal development of cartilage and bone.
papillon-lefevre syndrome	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
cyst, parovarian	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
robin sequence (disorder)	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
rothmund-thomson syndrome	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
dysmorphisms	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
prader labhart willi syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
syndrome; abdominal muscle deficiency	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
triad syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
pseudohermaphroditism	condition in which the gonads are of one sex but one or more contradictions exist in the morphologic criteria of sex; female pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal female with partial masculinization; male pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal male with incomplete masculinization.
congenital respiratory tract malformation nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
system abnormalities, respiratory	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
rubenstein taybi syndrome	A chromosomal disorder characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION, broad thumbs, webbing of fingers and toes, beaked nose, short upper lip, pouting lower lip, agenesis of corpus callosum, large foramen magnum, keloid formation, pulmonary stenosis, vertebral anomalies, chest wall anomalies, sleep apnea, and megacolon. The disease has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance and is associated with deletions of the short arm of chromosome 16 (16p13.3).
schwartz jampel syndrome	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
sympodia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
fused legs and feet	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
sirenomelia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
fatty alcohol:nad+ oxidoreductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
sturge syndrome weber	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
weber syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
milles' syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
cm - congenital malformation	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
fallots tetralogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
congenital defect, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
tetralogy, fallots	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
tetralogy of fallot	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
thanatophoric dysplasia	A severe form of neonatal dwarfism with very short limbs. All cases have died at birth or later in the neonatal period.
malformation of teeth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
defects congen	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
tooth abnormalities	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
crowded teeth	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
dental crowding	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
impacted tooth	A tooth that is prevented from erupting by a physical barrier, usually other teeth. Impaction may also result from orientation of the tooth in an other than vertical position in the periodontal structures.
supernumerary teeth	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
supernumerary teeth were noted	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
werner's syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
white heifer disease	Vrozená vada pohlavních orgánů u bílých jalovic určitých plemen skotu (např. Belgian Blue, Shorthorn). Bílá barva je dědičný recesivní znak spojený s defekty samičího pohlavního ústrojí (Müllerův vývod). Tyto jalovice jsou většinou sterilní.
congenital deformity nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
zellweger's syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder due to defects in PEROXISOME biogenesis which involves more than 13 genes encoding peroxin proteins of the peroxisomal membrane and matrix. Zellweger syndrome is typically seen in the neonatal period with features such as dysmorphic skull; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; visual compromise; SEIZURES; progressive degeneration of the KIDNEYS and the LIVER. Zellweger-like syndrome refers to phenotypes resembling the neonatal Zellweger syndrome but seen in children or adults with apparently intact peroxisome biogenesis.
familial alobar holoprosencephaly	Anterior midline brain, cranial, and facial malformations resulting from the failure of the embryonic prosencephalon to undergo segmentation and cleavage. Alobar prosencephaly is the most severe form and features anophthalmia; cyclopia; severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY; CLEFT LIP; CLEFT PALATE; SEIZURES; and microcephaly. Semilobar holoprosencepaly is characterized by hypotelorism, microphthalmia, coloboma, nasal malformations, and variable degrees of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Lobar holoprosencephaly is associated with mild (or absent) facial malformations and intellectual abilities that range from mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY to normal. Holoprosencephaly is associated with CHROMOSOME ABNORMALITIES.
holoprosencephalies	Anterior midline brain, cranial, and facial malformations resulting from the failure of the embryonic prosencephalon to undergo segmentation and cleavage. Alobar prosencephaly is the most severe form and features anophthalmia; cyclopia; severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY; CLEFT LIP; CLEFT PALATE; SEIZURES; and microcephaly. Semilobar holoprosencepaly is characterized by hypotelorism, microphthalmia, coloboma, nasal malformations, and variable degrees of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Lobar holoprosencephaly is associated with mild (or absent) facial malformations and intellectual abilities that range from mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY to normal. Holoprosencephaly is associated with CHROMOSOME ABNORMALITIES.
holoprosencephaly	Anterior midline brain, cranial, and facial malformations resulting from the failure of the embryonic prosencephalon to undergo segmentation and cleavage. Alobar prosencephaly is the most severe form and features anophthalmia; cyclopia; severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY; CLEFT LIP; CLEFT PALATE; SEIZURES; and microcephaly. Semilobar holoprosencepaly is characterized by hypotelorism, microphthalmia, coloboma, nasal malformations, and variable degrees of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Lobar holoprosencephaly is associated with mild (or absent) facial malformations and intellectual abilities that range from mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY to normal. Holoprosencephaly is associated with CHROMOSOME ABNORMALITIES.
hepatofacioneurocardiovertebral syndrome	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
pancreas; annular	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
deformity; congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
anular pancreas	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
iniencephaly	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
iniencephaly nos (disorder)	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
iniencephaly (disorder)	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
iniencephalies	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
ankyloglossia	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
cleft palate and lip	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
cheilopalatoschisis	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
cleft lip and cleft palate	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
aglossia	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
tongue; agenesis	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
salivary glands, absence of	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
congenital absence of salivary gland	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
absence of salivary gland	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
absence of salivary gland, congenital	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
urinary system anomalies nos	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
urinary tract malformation	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
angelman syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
dubowitz syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, and a small, round, triangular shaped face with a pointed, receding chin, a broad, wide-tipped nose, and wide-set eyes with drooping eyelids.
dubowitz's syndrome (disorder)	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, and a small, round, triangular shaped face with a pointed, receding chin, a broad, wide-tipped nose, and wide-set eyes with drooping eyelids.
russell-silver syndrome	Genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by low birth weight, postnatal growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, bilateral body asymmetry, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers. Alterations in GENETIC IMPRINTING are involved. Hypomethylation of IGF2/H19 locus near an imprinting center region of chromosome 11p15 plays a role in a subset of Silver-Russell syndrome. Hypermethylation of the same chromosomal region, on the other hand, can cause BECKWITH-WIEDEMANN SYNDROME. Maternal UNIPARENTAL DISOMY for chromosome 7 is known to play a role in its etiology.
smith-lemli-opitz syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder of CHOLESTEROL metabolism. It is caused by a deficiency of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase, the enzyme that converts 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol, leading to an abnormally low plasma cholesterol. This syndrome is characterized by multiple CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES, growth deficiency, and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
abnormalities, congenital	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
soto's syndrome	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
van der woude	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
van der woude syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
aarskog-scott syndrome	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
williams-beuren syndrome (wbs)	A disorder caused by hemizygous microdeletion of about 28 genes on chromosome 7q11.23, including the ELASTIN gene. Clinical manifestations include SUPRAVALVULAR AORTIC STENOSIS; MENTAL RETARDATION; elfin facies; impaired visuospatial constructive abilities; and transient HYPERCALCEMIA in infancy. The condition affects both sexes, with onset at birth or in early infancy.
thrombocytopenia-absent radii syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
teeth, ghost	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
pfeiffer's syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly type v (disorder)	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
bpes syndrome	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
vcf-velocardiofacial syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
velocardiofacial syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
deletion 22q11.2 syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
diastrophic dysplasia (disorder)	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the SLC26A2 gene, encoding sulfate transporter. It is characterized by cartilaginous and bony abnormalities, in particular very short arms and legs and the "hitchhiker" thumb, resulting from deformity of the first metacarpal.
moebius syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
oculofacial paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
portwine stains	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
salmon patch naevus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
fetal valproate syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to valproic acid during pregnancy. Manifestations include musculoskeletal abnormalities, intellectual disability, spina bifida, and distinctive facial features.
pseudohermaphroditism female	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In female pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is female (XX) and the gonads are ovaries, but the external genitalia are virilized. [HPO:curators]
female pseudohermaphroditism (disorder)	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In female pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is female (XX) and the gonads are ovaries, but the external genitalia are virilized. [HPO:curators]
merms	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
pseudohermaphroditism, male	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
pycnodysostosis	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by delayed closing of CRANIAL SUTURES, short stature, ACRO-OSTEOLYSIS of distal phalanges, dental and MAXILLOFACIAL ABNORMALITIES and an increase in bone density that results in frequent BONE FRACTURES. It is associated with BONE RESORPTION defect due to mutations in the lysosomal cysteine protease CATHEPSIN K.
lenticonus	A conical projection of the anterior or posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:ncarter]
microdontia	Decreased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD below mean. Alternatively, an apparently decreased maximum width of tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
congenital high arched palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
high-arched hard palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
crossbite (disorder)	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
crossbite	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
(mandibulofacial dysostosis) or (franceschetti syndrome) (disorder)	A hereditary disorder occurring in two forms: the complete form (Franceschetti's syndrome) is characterized by antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures, COLOBOMA of the lower lid, MICROGNATHIA and hypoplasia of the ZYGOMATIC ARCHES, and CONGENITAL MICROTIA. It is transmitted as an autosomal trait. The incomplete form (Treacher Collins syndrome) is characterized by the same anomalies in less pronounced degree. It occurs sporadically, but an autosomal dominant mode of transmission is suspected. (Dorland, 27th ed)
angioma serpiginosum	A hemangioma arising from the skin, presenting as a red dot.
intellectual disability, dwarfism, and gonadal hypoplasia due to xeroderma pigmentosum	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome. It is characterized by xeroderma pigmentosum, mental retardation, dwarfism, hypogonadism, and neurologic abnormalities.
sckl	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
robinow syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive or dominant inherited disorder. The autosomal recessive form is caused by mutations in the ROR2 gene. There is no causative mutation identified for the autosomal dominant form. It is manifested with short limbs, abnormal facial features, underdeveloped genitalia, and wedge-shaped vertebrae.
syndrome weaver	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene, and rarely mutations in the NSD1 gene. It is characterized by advanced bone age, foot deformities, permanently bent joints, macrocephaly, flattened back of the head, a broad forehead, hypertelorism, large, low-set ears, micrognathia, delayed development of motor skills, and mild intellectual disability.
distal arthrogryposis syndrome (disorder)	An inherited primary limb malformation disorder characterized by congenital contractures of two or more different body areas and without primary neurologic and/or muscle disease that affects limb function. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8923935]
dysencephalia splanchnocystica	A rare, lethal, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypoplasia, central nervous system malformations, and hepatic malformations.
neu-laxova syndrome	A rare multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of severe intrauterine growth retardation, severe microcephaly with a sloping forehead, severe ichthyosis (collodion baby type), and facial dysmorphism. Severe central nervous system defects are present. The syndrome is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
pallister-hall syndrome	A pleiotropic disorder of human development that comprises hypothalamic HAMARTOMA; central and postaxial POLYDACTYLY; bifid EPIGLOTTIS; ANAL ATRESIA; and renal and other abnormalities. This disorder is associated with FRAMESHIFT MUTATIONS in the GLI3 gene which encodes the GLI3 protein, a KRUPPEL-LIKE TRANSCRIPTION FACTORS family member.
walker-warburg syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
royer syndrome	Spojení diabetes mellitus se syndromem Prader-Williho.
windmill-vane-hand syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
freeman-sheldon syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
whistling face	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
da2a	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
schinzel-giedion syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutation(s) in the SETBP1 gene, encoding SET-binding protein. It is characterized by unique facial features, including midface hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
pena shokeir syndrome	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder. It is characterized by arthrogryposis, facial anomalies, polyhydramnios, camptodactyly, intrauterine growth retardation, and pulmonary hypoplasia. Pulmonary hypoplasia is present in the vast majority of cases and is often the fatal component of this syndrome.
branchiootorenal syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
branchio-otorenal syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
marshall's syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(XI) chain. The syndrome may be characterized by facial dysmorphism, cataracts, myopia, hearing loss, and short stature. Mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene are causative in Stickler syndrome, but the phenotype of Marshall syndrome is more mild.
first and second branchial arch syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
otomandibular dysostosis	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
otocephaly	A fatal, congenital, anatomic defect of the head characterised by a total or near total absence of the lower jaw, resulting in the union or close approach of the ears on the ventral side of the neck.
townes-brocks syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
anus, imperforate, with hand, foot, and ear anomalies	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
opd1	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
oto-palato-digital syndrome type 1	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
malformation, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
syndrome, coffin	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
stickler syndrome (disorder)	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
sticklers syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
escobar syndrome (disorder)	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
holt-oram syndrome	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
kniest dysplasia	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited bone growth disorder caused by mutations in the COL2A1gene. It is characterized by short stature (dwarfism) and other skeletal abnormalities, round, flat face with bulging and wide-set eyes, myopia and retinal detachment that can lead to blindness.
metatropic dwarfism	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TRPV4 gene, encoding transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4. It is characterized by a variable phenotype, which may include short limbs, kyphoscoliosis, and other skeletal abnormalities.
fibrochondrogenesis	Fibrochondrogenesis is a rare neonatally lethal rhizomelic chondrodysplasia. The face is distinctive with characteristics of protuberant eyes, flat midface, flat small nose with anteverted nares and a small mouth with long upper lip. Cleft palate, micrognathia and bifid tongue can occur. The limbs show marked shortness of all segments with relatively normal hands and feet. No internal anomalies other than omphalocele have been reported. Transmission is probably autosomal recessive. Recurrence in a consanguineous family (affecting both sexes) and concordance of affected male twins has been reported.
atelosteogenesis/diastrophic dysplasia group	A perinatally lethal skeletal dysplasia with manifestations of severe short-limbed dwarfism, joint dislocations, clubfeet along with distinctive facies and radiographic findings. Affected neonates are stillborn or die rapidly after birth. Craniofacial dysmorphism has characteristics of prominent forehead, hypertelorism, a depressed nasal bridge with a grooved tip, micrognathia and frequently a cleft palate. There is a continuum with overlapping clinical findings between atelosteogenesis I, atelosteogenesis III and boomerang dysplasia. This disease results from heterozygous mutations in exons 2-5 and 27-33 of the gene encoding filamin B (FLNB) located to 3p14.
dyggve-melchior-clausen disease	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the DYM gene. It is characterized by abnormal skeletal development, microcephaly, and intellectual disability.
congenital anatomic abnormality	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
kenny syndrome (disorder)	A genetic condition characterized by long bone sclerosis and thickening, short stature, and head and eye anomalies. Many affected individuals have hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia.
metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, jansen type (diagnosis)	A form of metaphyseal chondrodysplasia caused by mutation(s) in the PTH1R gene, encoding parathyroid hormone/parathyroid hormone-related peptide receptor. This condition is characterized by severe short stature, short bowed limbs, clinodactyly, prominent upper face, and a small mandible. Hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia due to PTH resistance can appear later in childhood.
sclerosteosis	An autosomal recessive form of craniotubular hyperostosis due to loss-of-function mutation(s) in the SOST gene, encoding sclerostin. Clinical features include tall stature, enlarged jaw and facial bones, and cranial nerve compression leading to hearing loss and facial palsy. About two-thirds of patients have syndactyly and/or nail malformations. Increased intracranial pressure due to the thickened calvaria and skull base can occur.
ruvalcaba-myhre syndrome (disorder)	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
ruvalcaba-myhre syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
hhid	A rare genetic disorder with an undetermined pattern of inheritance affecting mostly females. Clinical signs at birth include recurrent respiratory infections, poor feeding, hypotonia, joint laxity and characteristic shortened fifth digits with hypoplastic or absent nails and craniofacial appearance: microcephaly, wide nose and lips, sparse scalp hair but thick eyebrows and eyelashes. The clinical course includes developmental delays in motor skills and speech with associated moderate mental retardation.
hypertrichosis, hyperkeratosis, mental retardation, and distinctive facial features	A rare genetic disorder with an undetermined pattern of inheritance affecting mostly females. Clinical signs at birth include recurrent respiratory infections, poor feeding, hypotonia, joint laxity and characteristic shortened fifth digits with hypoplastic or absent nails and craniofacial appearance: microcephaly, wide nose and lips, sparse scalp hair but thick eyebrows and eyelashes. The clinical course includes developmental delays in motor skills and speech with associated moderate mental retardation.
mental retardation, x-linked, syndromic, borjeson-forssman-lehmann type	An X-linked recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the PHF6 gene, encoding PHD finger protein 6. It is characterized by severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, hypogonadism, hypometabolism, and obesity.
mental retardation, epilepsy, and endocrine disorders	An X-linked recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the PHF6 gene, encoding PHD finger protein 6. It is characterized by severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, hypogonadism, hypometabolism, and obesity.
axenfeldt-rieger syndrome	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld's syndrome	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
scdo1 spondylocostal dysostosis 1	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
spondylothoracic dysostosis	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
leprechaunism syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome of extreme insulin resistance due to mutations in the binding domain of INSULIN RECEPTOR. Clinical features include severe intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction, characteristic dysmorphic FACIES; HIRSUTISM; VIRILIZATION; multiple endocrine abnormalities, and early death.
lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome	An autosomal dominant genetic disorder caused by mutation(s) in the FOXC2 gene, encoding forkhead box protein C2. The condition is characterized by lymphedema and distichiasis.
congenital anomalies of fetus	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
associations, charge	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome usually caused by mutations in the CHD7 gene. The term CHARGE is an acronym for the following unusual congenital abnormalities that are associated with this syndrome: coloboma of the eye, heart defects, choanal atresia, growth and developmental retardation, genital, and ear abnormalities.
congenital anomaly (morphologic abnormality)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
dilantin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
syndrome; fetal, hydantoin	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
meadow	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
fetal coumadin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
congenital anomaly of nose, nos	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
mulberry molar	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
congenital deformity (disorder)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
ectopic teeth	<p>Ectopic tooth</p>
ectopic tooth (disorder)	<p>Ectopic tooth</p>
mesiodentes	A supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:18262485, PMID:31468724]
mesiodens	A supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:18262485, PMID:31468724]
congenital abnormality, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
gemination of crown of teeth	The development of two teeth from a single tooth bud, leading to a larger fused tooth. [PMID:18167487]
enamel pearl	Small nodules of enamel on the root of a tooth. [PMID:31468724]
macrodontia	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
peg-shaped tooth (diagnosis)	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
conical teeth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
taurodontism	Increased volume of dental pulp of permanent molar characterized by a crown body-root ratio equal or larger than 1:1 or an elongated pulp chambers and apical displacement of the bifurcation or trifurcation of the roots. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
hypoplasia of cementum (diagnosis)	The decrease or absence of cementum. The cementum anchors the periodontal ligament attachment fiber between the tooth root and the alveolar bone. Its absence leads to early loss of teeth. [PMID:31468724]
eruption of teeth; premature	Premature tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD earlier than the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
rostral crossbite	<p>Anterior crossbite</p>
posterior dental crossbite (diagnosis)	<p>Posterior crossbite</p>
posterior crossbite	<p>Posterior crossbite</p>
absence of overlap of anterior upper and lower teeth	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
open bite	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
bite, open	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
posterior open bite (disorder)	<p>Posterior open bite</p>
defect, birth	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
increased overlap of upper and lower incisors	Increased superior-inferior overlap of the maxillary central incisors over the mandibular central incisors relative to the incisal ridges.
cheilognathoschisis	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip and upper jaw.
cheilognathopalatoschisis	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip, hard and/or soft palate and upper jaw.
congenital anomaly, unspecified	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
tongue; bifid	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
bifid tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
congen abnorm	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
absence of uvula	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
lingual thyroid	Ett tillstånd som kännetecknas av förekomst av rudimentär sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Det beror på misslyckad embryonal utveckling och migrering av sköldkörtelvävnad till dess normala plats. Tungsköldkörteln kan vanligtvis inte upprätthålla en tillräcklig hormonproduktion, vilket leder till hypotyreos.
ambiguous genitalia	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
ambiguous external genitalia	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
abnorm congen	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
uterine anomaly	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterine abnormalities	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
unicornate uterus	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
infantile uterus (disorder)	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
imperforate vagina	Embryologic remnant consisting of a persistent connective tissue membrane within the vaginal vault.
ear -congenital anomaly	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of ear nos	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
visceral heterotaxy	The abnormal arrangement or position of thoracic and/or abdominal organs in relation to each other, often occurring in a right/left transposition.
cyclops eye	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
synotus (disorder)	A congenital malformation characterized by the union or approximation of the ears in front of the neck, often accompanied by the absence or defective development of the lower jaw. [HPO:sdoelken]
synotia	A congenital malformation characterized by the union or approximation of the ears in front of the neck, often accompanied by the absence or defective development of the lower jaw. [HPO:sdoelken]
cebocephaly (disorder)	Two orbital cavities and two eyes present, the region between being narrowed. Expected skeletal alterations include fused frontonasal and/or maxillary bones and incisors. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
ethmocephaly	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of holoprosencephaly, a proboscis, the absence of a nose and microphthalmic, close-set eyes.
celosomial monster	Congenital protrusion of the abdominal or thoracic viscera, usually with a defect of the sternum and ribs as well as of the abdominal walls. [HPO:sdoelken]
pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
deficiency; 5-alpha-reductase	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
5 alpha-reductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
partial androgen insensitivity	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
partial androgen insensitivity (reifenstein's syndrome) (diagnosis)	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
typus degenerativus amstelodamensis	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
brachmann de lange syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
lingual goiter	Sjuklig förstoring av lingual tyreoidea, ektopisk sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Tillståndet kan ge upphov till luftvägshinder, sväljningssvårigheter eller hypertyreossymtom.
indeterminate sex	Outer genital organs are not visually male or female.
indeterminate sex (body structure)	Outer genital organs are not visually male or female.
caudal regression syndrome	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by partial or complete absence of the lower portion of the spine.
cyst gingival	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
congenital arteriovenous fistula	structural anomaly present at birth which allows direct passage of blood from an artery to a vein.
septo-optic dysplasia sequence	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
septooptic dysplasia	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
bifid epiglottis	A midline anterior-posterior cleft of the epiglottis that involves at least two-thirds of the epiglottic leaf. It is a useful feature for clinical diagnosis because it appears to be very rare in syndromes other than Pallister-Hall-Syndrome and is also rare as an isolated malformation. [HPO:curators]
congenital anomaly of capillary	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
cmal	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
scrotal cleft	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
congenital thyroid hypoplasia	Incomplete development of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
cretinism	Severely reduced physical and mental growth associated with pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, due to dietary iodine deficiency.
cholesterol monooxygenase (side-chain cleaving) deficiency (disorder)	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
lenticonus posterior	A conical projection of the posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:gblack]
alacrima	Absence of tear secretion. [HPO:probinson]
tetralogy of fallot with pulmonary stenosis (disorder)	The commonest form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by pulmonary stenosis, overriding aorta, ventricular septum defect, and right ventricular hypertrophy, without pulmonary atresia, absent pulmonary valve, atrioventricular canal defect or absent subarterial conus. [HPO:probinson]
tetralogy of fallot with pulmonary atresia	An extreme form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by absence of flow from the right ventricle to the pulmonary arteries. [ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22368654]
exstrophy of cloaca sequence	Cloacal exstrophy is a severe anterior abdominal wall defect in which the two hemibladders are visible and are separated by a midline intestinal plate, an omphalocele, and an imperforate anus. [HPO:probinson]
cloacal exstrophy	Cloacal exstrophy is a severe anterior abdominal wall defect in which the two hemibladders are visible and are separated by a midline intestinal plate, an omphalocele, and an imperforate anus. [HPO:probinson]
vaginal hypoplasia	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
morgagni hydatid	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
hydatid of morgagni	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
diphallus	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
phimosis	The male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis. [HPO:sdoelken]
cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (diagnosis)	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
cobb syndrome	A rare congenital but non-hereditary disorder characterized by angiomas or arteriovenous malformations of the spinal cord. Clinical signs include sudden onset of radicular pain localizable to a dermatome with overlying cutaneous vascular lesions. Untreated, the clinical course follows a progression of sensory loss, weakness to paralysis and incontinence. However, clinical prognosis improves with endovascular embolization and/or surgical excision of the spinal lesion.
cobb's syndrome (disorder)	A rare congenital but non-hereditary disorder characterized by angiomas or arteriovenous malformations of the spinal cord. Clinical signs include sudden onset of radicular pain localizable to a dermatome with overlying cutaneous vascular lesions. Untreated, the clinical course follows a progression of sensory loss, weakness to paralysis and incontinence. However, clinical prognosis improves with endovascular embolization and/or surgical excision of the spinal lesion.
cobb's syndrome	A rare congenital but non-hereditary disorder characterized by angiomas or arteriovenous malformations of the spinal cord. Clinical signs include sudden onset of radicular pain localizable to a dermatome with overlying cutaneous vascular lesions. Untreated, the clinical course follows a progression of sensory loss, weakness to paralysis and incontinence. However, clinical prognosis improves with endovascular embolization and/or surgical excision of the spinal lesion.
epulides congen	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
bilateral cleft lip	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on the left and right sides. [HPO:probinson]
cleft lip, unilateral	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on one side only. [HPO:probinson]
roberts-sc phocomelia syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
anodontia	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
developmental anomaly (morphologic abnormality)	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
dental agenesis	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
anomaly	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
accessory cusp of tooth	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
talon cusp (disorder)	Talon cusp is an accessory cusp located near the cingulum (the portion of the lingual or palatal aspect of the tooth that forms a convex protuberance at the cervical third of the anatomic crown). [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
premature loss of primary teeth	Loss of the primary (also known as deciduous) teeth before the usual age. [HPO:sdoelken]
ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
hay-wells syndrome of ectodermal dysplasia (disorder)	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
pseudoachondroplastic spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the COMP gene. It is characterized by short stature, short arms and legs, waddling walk, osteoarthritis, and limited range of motion at the elbows and hips.
holoprosencephalies, lobar	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
lobar holoprosencephaly	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
alobar holoprosencephaly	A type of holoprosencephaly characterized by the presence of a single ventricle and no separation of the cerebral hemisphere. The single midline ventricle is often greatly enlarged. [gc:hpe]
corpus callosum atrophy	The presence of atrophy (wasting) of the corpus callosum. [HPO:sdoelken]
asymmetric crying facies	Asymmetry observed in the face of a neonate or infant whose face appears symmetric at rest and asymmetric during crying as the mouth is pulled downward on one side while not moving on the other side. [HPO:cwright]
sacral dysgenesis (disorder)	A developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum, which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae S1-S5, fail to form or fail to form normally. []
vein of galen aneurysm	Gross dilatation of the vein of Galen, being fed by large anomalous vessel or vessels arising from the carotid or basilar circulation. [UToronto:chum]
unibrow	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
synophrys	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
absent eyebrow	Absence of the eyebrow. [HPO:probinson]
double eyebrow	This may present as a partial or complete duplication of the eyebrows. [HPO:sdoelken]
lobulate tongue	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
hamartomata of tongue	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
cryptorchidism, bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
cryptorchidism, unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
penis webbed	Ventral skinfold extending from penis to scrotum. [PMID:23650202]
alveolar cleft	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft of soft palate (disorder)	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
cleft; palate, soft	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
submucous cleft of hard palate (diagnosis)	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
semdit	Syndrome with characteristics of disproportionate short-trunked short stature, pectus carinatum, short arms, short and broad hands, short metatarsals, flat and broad feet, coxa vara, genu valgum, osteoarthritis, arthrosis and moderate-to-serious gait impairment. The syndrome has been described among Venezuelan Indians of the Yukpa (Irapa) tribe and three siblings from a Mexican mestizo family. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
wolcott-rallison dysplasia	A rare, autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the EIF2AK3 gene, which encodes translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase-3. The condition is characterized by the following: permanent insulin-dependent diabetes, with onset in the neonatal period or infancy; epiphyseal dysplasia; deficient bone mineralization, diagnosed in the first year or two of life; and liver dysfunction, occurring in early childhood. Other features may include intellectual deficit, hypothyroidism, renal dysfunction, neutropenia, and thyroid dysfunction. The manifestations and clinical course are variable.
trichorhinophalangeal dysplasia type i	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome, type i	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
hyperphosphatasaemia tarda	An autosomal recessive form of craniotubular hyperostosis due to a 52-kb deletion in the SOST gene, encoding sclerostin. Clinical features include normal stature, enlarged jaw and facial bones, hearing loss, and facial palsy due to cranial nerve deficits. The absence of syndactyly distinguishes this condition from sclerosteosis.
endosteal hyperostoses with cerebellar hypoplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital cerebellar hypoplasia, endosteal sclerosis, hypotonia, ataxia, mild to moderate developmental delay, short stature, hip dislocation, and tooth eruption disturbances. It has been described in four patients. Less common manifestations are microcephaly, strabismus, nystagmus, optic atrophy and dysarthria. It is appears to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
kawashima syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
thalidomide syndrome	Fetal embryopathy associated with maternal thalidomide use during pregnancy characterized by phocomelia of one or all limbs, other limb defects such as thumb abnormalities, and other structural anomalies that may include facial hemangioma, esophageal and duodenal atresia, tetralogy of Fallot, renal agenesis, and anomalies of the external ear. Long term complications may include Moebius syndrome or autism.
foetal aminopterin/methotrexate syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
congenital malformation syndromes due to known exogenous causes	A syndrome characterized by the presence of structural malformations that are present at birth and can be attributed to an exogenous cause.
congenital malformation syndromes due to known exogenous causes (diagnosis)	A syndrome characterized by the presence of structural malformations that are present at birth and can be attributed to an exogenous cause.
hypospadias, penoscrotal (diagnosis)	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
hypospadias, perineal	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8097257]
perineum; hypospadias	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8097257]
hepatic arteriovenous malformation	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the liver.
hepatic arteriovenous malformation (diagnosis)	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the liver.
pseudocryptorchism	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
congenital arteriovenous anomaly of gastrointestinal tract	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
retinal arteriovenous malformation	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
congenital arteriovenous malformation of retina (disorder)	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
syndrome, mulibrey nanism	Vrozená porucha růstu, která je způsobena mutací genu (TRIM37) na chromozomu 17q22-Q23, který kóduje RING-B-box-coiled-coil protein.
parachute mitral valve	Abnormality of the mitral valve apparatus, whereby chordae attach to a single papillary muscle or hypoplastic papillary muscles. [DDD:dbrown]
thoracoabdominal syndrome	Rare congenital deformity syndrome characterized by a combination of five anomalies as a result of neural tube defect. The five anomalies are a midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect (e.g., OMPHALOCELE), a lower STERNUM defect, a congenital intracardiac defect, an anterior DIAPHRAGM defect, and a diaphragmatic PERICARDIUM defect (e.g., PERICARDIAL EFFUSION). Variants with incomplete and variable combinations of the defects are known. ECTOPIA CORDIS; CLEFT LIP; and CLEFT PALATE are often associated with the syndrome.
dental overjet	Přesah horních řezáků před dolními v horizontálním směru. Mírný p. je fyziologický, je dán větší šířkou horního zubního oblouku. Při poruchách mezičelistních vztahů může dojít ke skusu "hrana na hranu\" nebo k obrácenému skusu, kdy dolní řezáky stojí před horními. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
single naris (disorder)	The presence of only a single nostril. [PMID:19152422]
rhinocephaly (diagnosis)	A congenital anatomic defect characterised by the presence of a proboscis-like nose located above the eyes, which are partially or completely fused.
acephalostomia	Absence of the head but with the presence of mouth-like orifice in the neck region. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
acephalostomia (diagnosis)	Absence of the head but with the presence of mouth-like orifice in the neck region. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
semilobar holoprosencephaly	A type of holoprosencephaly in which the left and right frontal and parietal lobes are fused and the interhemispheric fissure is only present posteriorly. [gc:hpe]
holoprosencephalies, semilobar	A type of holoprosencephaly in which the left and right frontal and parietal lobes are fused and the interhemispheric fissure is only present posteriorly. [gc:hpe]
vascular malformation of the nervous system	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
vascular malformations, central nervous system	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
bbs	En autosomal, recessiv störning kännetecknad av retinitis pigmentosa, polydaktyli, övervikt, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, hypogenitalism, njurdysplasi och kortvuxenhet. Syndromet skiljer sig från Laurence-Moons syndrom.
rathke's pouch cyst (disorder)	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
cyst of rathke's pouch (disorder)	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
rathke's cleft cyst	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
cyst of rathke's pouch	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
suprasellar cyst	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
smith-magenis syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by an interstitial deletion in chromosome 17p11.2. It is characterized by mild to moderate mental retardation, distinctive facial features (flat head, square face, and deep set-eyes), sleep disturbances, attention deficit disorders, and temper tantrums.
myhre syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SMAD4 gene. It is characterized by developmental abnormalities, mild to moderate intellectual disability, hearing loss, skin stiffness, skeletal abnormalities, and typical facial features (short palpebral fissures, shortened distance between the nose and upper lip, midface hypoplasia, prognathism, cleft palate, and/or cleft lip).
hypospadias, unspecified	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is below its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the ventral surface of the PENIS or on the PERINEUM. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is in the VAGINA.
hypospadias (physical finding)	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is below its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the ventral surface of the PENIS or on the PERINEUM. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is in the VAGINA.
cheney syndrome	Rare, autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by ACRO-OSTEOLYSIS, generalized OSTEOPOROSIS, and skull deformations.
cerebral arteriovenous malformation	An anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the brain. []
carpenter syndrome	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome 1	A rare genetic syndrome most often caused by BRAF gene mutations. It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance (high forehead, short nose, and widely spaced eyes), sparse and brittle hair, skin disorders, heart malformations, mental retardation and developmental delay.
fetal akinesia sequence	Decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures, facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia. Ultrasound examination may reveal polyhydramnios, ankylosis, scalp edema, and decreased chest movements (reflecting pulmonary hypoplasia). [HPO:probinson]
false anodontia (disorder)	Absence of teeth as a result of impaction, delayed eruption, exfoliation or extraction.
false anodontia	Absence of teeth as a result of impaction, delayed eruption, exfoliation or extraction.
abnormal number of teeth	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
anodontia of permanent dentition	A congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth, including oligodontia, hypodontia, and adontia of the of permanent teeth. [HPO:probinson]
absent permanent teeth	A congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth, including oligodontia, hypodontia, and adontia of the of permanent teeth. [HPO:probinson]
cleft lip and alveolus	<p>Cleft lip & alveolus</p>
mittendorf's dot	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
type 1 thanatophoric dysplasia	Thanatophoric dysplasia characterized by a normally shaped skull and curved femurs. It is the most common type of thanatophoric dysplasia.
cloverleaf skull with thanatophoric dwarfism	Thanatophoric dysplasia characterized by a cloverleaf-like skull and straight femurs.
tetralogy of fallot with absent pulmonary valve	Features of tetralogy of Fallot with either rudimentary ridges or the complete absence of pulmonic valve tissue. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital malformation syndrome	A syndrome characterized by the presence of congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or system.
single umbilical artery	Congenital abnormality where one, instead of the usual two, UMBILICAL ARTERY connects the fetus to the placenta.
coronal hypospadias	A mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis. [HPO:probinson]
coronal hypospadias (physical finding)	A mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis. [HPO:probinson]
acrocephalosyndactylia	Congenital craniostenosis with syndactyly.
vein of galen malformation (diagnosis)	Congenital arteriovenous malformation involving the VEIN OF GALEN, a large deep vein at the base of the brain. The rush of arterial blood directly into the vein of Galen, without passing through the CAPILLARIES, can overwhelm the heart and lead to CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
vein of galen malformation	Congenital arteriovenous malformation involving the VEIN OF GALEN, a large deep vein at the base of the brain. The rush of arterial blood directly into the vein of Galen, without passing through the CAPILLARIES, can overwhelm the heart and lead to CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
penis hypospadias penile	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
hypospadias	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is below its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the ventral surface of the PENIS or on the PERINEUM. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is in the VAGINA.
vacterl association	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
otopalatodigital syndrome (disorder)	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
oto-palato-digital syndrome, type ii	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
raine dysplasia (disorder)	A rare disorder defined by generalised osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation, characteristic facial dysmorphism, brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications, and neonatal lethal course. Mutations in the FAM20C gene have a causative role in lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
pterygium multiple syndrome, lethal type	A rare variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by severe athrogryposis, pterygium, akinesia and often hydrops fetalis and cystic hygroma. This variant is fatal, usually during the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
lethal kniest-like syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia and lethal form of neonatal short-limbed dwarfism, with characteristics of anisospondyly, severe short stature and limb shortening, metaphyseal flaring and distinct dysmorphic features (flat facial appearance, abnormal ears, short neck, narrow thorax). Additional features may include other skeletal findings (for example joint contractures, bowed limbs, talipes equinovarus) and urogenital and cardiovascular abnormalities.
shone's syndrome (greater than 3 sites)	A congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the presence of subvalvar left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, coarctation of the aorta, and mitral stenosis.
penoscrotal transposition	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the partial or complete transposition of the penis and scrotum. In cases of complete penoscrotal transposition, the scrotum is positioned anteriorly and above the penis. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
vascular anomalies	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
goldblatt viljoen syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
fetal alcohol spectrum disorders	A group of disorders caused by a prenatal exposure to maternal consumption of alcohol leading to a range of behavioral, cognitive and neurological deficits in the offspring. It is characterized by physical growth problems, distinct facies, and varying psycho-neurological issues.
pig bronchus	Accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:11158647, PMID:19332762]
abnormal development, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
bronchus suis	Accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:11158647, PMID:19332762]
congenital iodine-deficiency syndrome	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth and caused by iodine deficiency.
waardenburgs syndrome	rare, autosomal dominant disease with variable penetrance and several known clinical subtypes; characteristics may include depigmentation of the hair and skin, congenital deafness, heterochromia iridis, medial eyebrow hyperplasia, hypertrophy of the nasal root, and especially dystopia canthorum; the underlying cause may be defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy); may be closely related to piebaldism; Klein-Waardenburg Syndrome refers to a disorder that also includes upper limb abnormalities.
hypocalcification of enamel	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
cerebrooculofacioskeletal syndrome	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
multiple congenital anomalies, nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
albinismus	General term for a number of inherited defects of amino acid metabolism in which there is a deficiency or absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, or hair.
chromosomal abnormality syndrome, nos	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
congenital anomaly of respiratory system (disorder)	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital anomaly musculoskeletal	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital deformity of limb (diagnosis)	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
anomaly of the neck	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
nerve; anomaly	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital cardiovascular disorder	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
aberrant tissue	A mass of histologically normal tissue present in an abnormal location.
common ventricle	An umbrella term used to describe several very different complex congenital heart defects that share the same problem: the heart has only one functional ventricle (anatomically right or left or indeterminate) supplying the systemic circulation. These defects include tricuspid atresia, hypoplastic left or right heart syndrome, double outlet right ventricle, double inlet left ventricle, and other forms of single ventricle defects.
dysraphism, nos	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
vascular anomalies, congenital	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
multiple congenital deformities nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
arnold-chiari syndrome	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
multiple arthrogryposis, congenital	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
arthrogryposis, congenital	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
louis bar syndrome	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by choreoathetosis beginning in childhood, progressive CEREBELLAR ATAXIA; TELANGIECTASIS of CONJUNCTIVA and SKIN; DYSARTHRIA; B- and T-cell immunodeficiency, and RADIOSENSITIVITY to IONIZING RADIATION. Affected individuals are prone to recurrent sinobronchopulmonary infections, lymphoreticular neoplasms, and other malignancies. Serum ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS are usually elevated. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p688) The gene for this disorder (ATM) encodes a cell cycle checkpoint protein kinase and has been mapped to chromosome 11 (11q22-q23).
exomphalos-macroglossia-gigantism syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
congenital telangiectatic erythema syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectatic ERYTHEMA of the face, photosensitivity, DWARFISM and other abnormalities, and a predisposition toward developing cancer. The Bloom syndrome gene (BLM) encodes a RecQ-like DNA helicase.
atresia; nares	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
ciliary motility disorders	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
cleft; lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft of upper lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft lip	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
palate cleft	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
deformity; palate, cleft (congenital)	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
cleidocranial dysplasia	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
dwarfism-retinal atrophy-deafness syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple system abnormalities including DWARFISM; PHOTOSENSITIVITY DISORDERS; PREMATURE AGING; and HEARING LOSS. It is caused by mutations of a number of autosomal recessive genes encoding proteins that involve transcriptional-coupled DNA REPAIR processes. Cockayne syndrome is classified by the severity and age of onset. Type I (classical; CSA) is early childhood onset in the second year of life; type II (congenital; CSB) is early onset at birth with severe symptoms; type III (xeroderma pigmentosum; XP) is late childhood onset with mild symptoms.
cockayne's syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple system abnormalities including DWARFISM; PHOTOSENSITIVITY DISORDERS; PREMATURE AGING; and HEARING LOSS. It is caused by mutations of a number of autosomal recessive genes encoding proteins that involve transcriptional-coupled DNA REPAIR processes. Cockayne syndrome is classified by the severity and age of onset. Type I (classical; CSA) is early childhood onset in the second year of life; type II (congenital; CSB) is early onset at birth with severe symptoms; type III (xeroderma pigmentosum; XP) is late childhood onset with mild symptoms.
nondescent; testicle	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
cryptorchidism, unilateral or bilateral	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
dens in dente (diagnosis)	Anomaly of the tooth, found chiefly in upper lateral incisors. It is characterized by invagination of the enamel at the incisal edge.
dentinal dysplasia (diagnosis)	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
diastema	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
abnormal spacing of teeth	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
chondroectodermal; dysplasia	Dwarfism occurring in association with defective development of skin, hair, and teeth, polydactyly, and defect of the cardiac septum. (Dorland, 27th ed)
fraxa - fragile x syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
fused teeth	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
hallerman-streiff syndrome	An oculomandibulofacial syndrome principally characterized by dyscephaly (usually brachycephaly), parrot nose, mandibular hypoplasia, proportionate nanism, hypotrichosis, bilateral congenital cataracts, and microphthalmia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
cavernous haemangioma	A vascular anomaly that is a collection of tortuous BLOOD VESSELS and connective tissue. This tumor-like mass with the large vascular space is filled with blood and usually appears as a strawberry-like lesion in the subcutaneous areas of the face, extremities, or other regions of the body including the central nervous system.
cavernous naevus	A vascular anomaly that is a collection of tortuous BLOOD VESSELS and connective tissue. This tumor-like mass with the large vascular space is filled with blood and usually appears as a strawberry-like lesion in the subcutaneous areas of the face, extremities, or other regions of the body including the central nervous system.
partial anodontia	The absence of five or less teeth from the normal series by a failure to develop. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
siewert syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
klippel-trenaunay-weber syndrome (disorder)	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
klippel-trenaunay syndromes	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
langer-giedion syndrome	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
syndrome, langer-giedion	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
trichorhinophalangeal dysplasia type ii	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
laurence-moon syndrome (disorder)	En autosomalt recessiv sjukdom som kännetecknas av hypogonadism, nedbrytning av ryggmärg och lillhjärna, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, retinitis pigmentosa och fetma. Syndromet kallades Laurence-Moon-Biedls syndrom tills Bardet-Biedls syndrom erkändes som ett självständigt sjukdomstillstånd.
hypertrophy of tongue	The presence of an excessively large tongue, which may be congenital or may develop as a result of a tumor or edema due to obstruction of lymphatic vessels, or it may occur in association with hyperpituitarism or acromegaly. It also may be associated with malocclusion because of pressure of the tongue on the teeth. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
wide mouth	Greatly exaggerated width of the mouth, resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes, with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear. The defect may be unilateral or bilateral. (Dorland, 27th ed)
mouth abnormalities	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital malformations of mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
dystrophica; myotonia	Neuromuscular disorder characterized by PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR ATROPHY; MYOTONIA, and various multisystem atrophies. Mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may also occur. Abnormal TRINUCLEOTIDE REPEAT EXPANSION in the 3' UNTRANSLATED REGIONS of DMPK PROTEIN gene is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 1. DNA REPEAT EXPANSION of zinc finger protein-9 gene intron is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 2.
natal teeth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
natal tooth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
males syndrome turners	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
noonan-ehmke syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
lowe oculocerebrorenal syndrome	A sex-linked recessive disorder affecting multiple systems including the EYE, the NERVOUS SYSTEM, and the KIDNEY. Clinical features include congenital CATARACT; MENTAL RETARDATION; and renal tubular dysfunction (FANCONI SYNDROME; RENAL TUBULAR ACIDOSIS; X-LINKED HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA or vitamin-D-resistant rickets) and SCOLIOSIS. This condition is due to a deficiency of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-5-phosphatase leading to defects in PHOSPHATIDYLINOSITOL metabolism and INOSITOL signaling pathway. (from Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p60; Am J Hum Genet 1997 Jun;60(6):1384-8)
oro-facio-digital syndrome	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
orofaciodigital syndrome	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
osteochondrodysplasia (diagnosis)	Abnormal development of cartilage and bone.
keratosis palmoplantar periodontopathy	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
parovarian cyst	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
pierre-robin anomaly	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
rothmund	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
prader-willi syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
prune-belly syndromes	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
abdominal muscles, absence of, with urinary tract abnormality and cryptorchidism	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
pseudohermaphroditism (disorder)	condition in which the gonads are of one sex but one or more contradictions exist in the morphologic criteria of sex; female pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal female with partial masculinization; male pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal male with incomplete masculinization.
congenital anomaly respiratory	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
rubinstein-taybi syndrome	A chromosomal disorder characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION, broad thumbs, webbing of fingers and toes, beaked nose, short upper lip, pouting lower lip, agenesis of corpus callosum, large foramen magnum, keloid formation, pulmonary stenosis, vertebral anomalies, chest wall anomalies, sleep apnea, and megacolon. The disease has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance and is associated with deletions of the short arm of chromosome 16 (16p13.3).
schwartz-jampel syndrome	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
chondrodystrophic myotonia	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
sirenomelia sequence	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
sirenomelus (disorder)	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
sympus	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
sjögren-larsson's syndrome	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
sturge-weber syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndrome, sturge-weber-krabbe	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
fallot of tetralogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
ventricular septal defect with pulmonary stenosis or atresia, dextraposition of aorta, and hypertrophy of right ventricle	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
thanatophoric short stature	A severe form of neonatal dwarfism with very short limbs. All cases have died at birth or later in the neonatal period.
tooth malformation (disorder)	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
teeth abnorm	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
congenital anomaly of teeth (disorder)	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
tooth crowding nos	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
supernumerary tooth (morphologic abnormality)	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
supernumerary tooth (disorder)	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
adult progeria	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
segmental uterine aplasia (disorder)	Vrozená vada pohlavních orgánů u bílých jalovic určitých plemen skotu (např. Belgian Blue, Shorthorn). Bílá barva je dědičný recesivní znak spojený s defekty samičího pohlavního ústrojí (Müllerův vývod). Tyto jalovice jsou většinou sterilní.
familial alobar holoprosencephaly -retired-	Anterior midline brain, cranial, and facial malformations resulting from the failure of the embryonic prosencephalon to undergo segmentation and cleavage. Alobar prosencephaly is the most severe form and features anophthalmia; cyclopia; severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY; CLEFT LIP; CLEFT PALATE; SEIZURES; and microcephaly. Semilobar holoprosencepaly is characterized by hypotelorism, microphthalmia, coloboma, nasal malformations, and variable degrees of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Lobar holoprosencephaly is associated with mild (or absent) facial malformations and intellectual abilities that range from mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY to normal. Holoprosencephaly is associated with CHROMOSOME ABNORMALITIES.
alagille syndrome	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
annular pancreas	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
iniencephaly (diagnosis)	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
cleft palate with hare hip	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
cleft palate with cleft lip	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
alsg	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
salivary gland absence	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
salivary gland; agenesis	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
congenital anomaly of the urinary tract	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital abnormality of the urinary system	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
happy puppet syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
dubowitz	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, and a small, round, triangular shaped face with a pointed, receding chin, a broad, wide-tipped nose, and wide-set eyes with drooping eyelids.
russell-silver dwarfism	Genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by low birth weight, postnatal growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, bilateral body asymmetry, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers. Alterations in GENETIC IMPRINTING are involved. Hypomethylation of IGF2/H19 locus near an imprinting center region of chromosome 11p15 plays a role in a subset of Silver-Russell syndrome. Hypermethylation of the same chromosomal region, on the other hand, can cause BECKWITH-WIEDEMANN SYNDROME. Maternal UNIPARENTAL DISOMY for chromosome 7 is known to play a role in its etiology.
syndromes, slo	An autosomal recessive disorder of CHOLESTEROL metabolism. It is caused by a deficiency of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase, the enzyme that converts 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol, leading to an abnormally low plasma cholesterol. This syndrome is characterized by multiple CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES, growth deficiency, and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
sotos' syndrome	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
aarskog disease	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
williams barratt syndrome	A disorder caused by hemizygous microdeletion of about 28 genes on chromosome 7q11.23, including the ELASTIN gene. Clinical manifestations include SUPRAVALVULAR AORTIC STENOSIS; MENTAL RETARDATION; elfin facies; impaired visuospatial constructive abilities; and transient HYPERCALCEMIA in infancy. The condition affects both sexes, with onset at birth or in early infancy.
tar syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
ghost tooth	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
syndrome, noack	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly type v	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
blepharophimosis syndrome	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
syndromes velocardiofacial	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
syndrome, sedlackova	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
shprintzen syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
diastrophic dysplasia	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the SLC26A2 gene, encoding sulfate transporter. It is characterized by cartilaginous and bony abnormalities, in particular very short arms and legs and the "hitchhiker" thumb, resulting from deformity of the first metacarpal.
congenital facial diplegia	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
moebius congen oculofacial paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
port wine nevus (diagnosis)	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
port wine birthmark	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
female pseudohermaphroditism	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In female pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is female (XX) and the gonads are ovaries, but the external genitalia are virilized. [HPO:curators]
developmental malformation, nos	Malformations of organs or body parts during development in utero.
male pseudohermaphroditism	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
pseudohermaphroditisms, male	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
microdontia (disorder)	Decreased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD below mean. Alternatively, an apparently decreased maximum width of tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
byzanthine arch palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
bite, cross	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
mandibulofacial dysostosis	A hereditary disorder occurring in two forms: the complete form (Franceschetti's syndrome) is characterized by antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures, COLOBOMA of the lower lid, MICROGNATHIA and hypoplasia of the ZYGOMATIC ARCHES, and CONGENITAL MICROTIA. It is transmitted as an autosomal trait. The incomplete form (Treacher Collins syndrome) is characterized by the same anomalies in less pronounced degree. It occurs sporadically, but an autosomal dominant mode of transmission is suspected. (Dorland, 27th ed)
angioma serpiginosum (disorder)	A hemangioma arising from the skin, presenting as a red dot.
essential telangiectasia	A hemangioma arising from the skin, presenting as a red dot.
desanctis cacchione syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome. It is characterized by xeroderma pigmentosum, mental retardation, dwarfism, hypogonadism, and neurologic abnormalities.
seckel syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
robinow dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive or dominant inherited disorder. The autosomal recessive form is caused by mutations in the ROR2 gene. There is no causative mutation identified for the autosomal dominant form. It is manifested with short limbs, abnormal facial features, underdeveloped genitalia, and wedge-shaped vertebrae.
wss	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene, and rarely mutations in the NSD1 gene. It is characterized by advanced bone age, foot deformities, permanently bent joints, macrocephaly, flattened back of the head, a broad forehead, hypertelorism, large, low-set ears, micrognathia, delayed development of motor skills, and mild intellectual disability.
meckel-gruber	A rare, lethal, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypoplasia, central nervous system malformations, and hepatic malformations.
nls - neu-laxova syndrome	A rare multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of severe intrauterine growth retardation, severe microcephaly with a sloping forehead, severe ichthyosis (collodion baby type), and facial dysmorphism. Severe central nervous system defects are present. The syndrome is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
ano-cerebro-digital syndrome	A pleiotropic disorder of human development that comprises hypothalamic HAMARTOMA; central and postaxial POLYDACTYLY; bifid EPIGLOTTIS; ANAL ATRESIA; and renal and other abnormalities. This disorder is associated with FRAMESHIFT MUTATIONS in the GLI3 gene which encodes the GLI3 protein, a KRUPPEL-LIKE TRANSCRIPTION FACTORS family member.
syndrome, royer's	Spojení diabetes mellitus se syndromem Prader-Williho.
craniocarpotarsal dysplasia	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
arthrogryposis distal type 2a (diagnosis)	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
schinzel-giedion midface retraction syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutation(s) in the SETBP1 gene, encoding SET-binding protein. It is characterized by unique facial features, including midface hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
pena-shokeir phenotype	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder. It is characterized by arthrogryposis, facial anomalies, polyhydramnios, camptodactyly, intrauterine growth retardation, and pulmonary hypoplasia. Pulmonary hypoplasia is present in the vast majority of cases and is often the fatal component of this syndrome.
marshall syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(XI) chain. The syndrome may be characterized by facial dysmorphism, cataracts, myopia, hearing loss, and short stature. Mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene are causative in Stickler syndrome, but the phenotype of Marshall syndrome is more mild.
oculoauriculovertebral spectrum	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
oral-mandibular-auricular syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
agnathia-otocephaly complex	A fatal, congenital, anatomic defect of the head characterised by a total or near total absence of the lower jaw, resulting in the union or close approach of the ears on the ventral side of the neck.
syndrome townes brock	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
renal-ear-anal-radial syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
otopalatodigital syndrome, type i	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
syndrome coffin lowry	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
coffin-lowry syndrome (diagnosis)	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
stickler syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
arthro-ophthalmopathy	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
multiple pterygium syndrome	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
hos1	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
swiss cheese cartilage dysplasia	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited bone growth disorder caused by mutations in the COL2A1gene. It is characterized by short stature (dwarfism) and other skeletal abnormalities, round, flat face with bulging and wide-set eyes, myopia and retinal detachment that can lead to blindness.
metatropic dysplasia	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TRPV4 gene, encoding transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4. It is characterized by a variable phenotype, which may include short limbs, kyphoscoliosis, and other skeletal abnormalities.
giant cell chondrodysplasia	A perinatally lethal skeletal dysplasia with manifestations of severe short-limbed dwarfism, joint dislocations, clubfeet along with distinctive facies and radiographic findings. Affected neonates are stillborn or die rapidly after birth. Craniofacial dysmorphism has characteristics of prominent forehead, hypertelorism, a depressed nasal bridge with a grooved tip, micrognathia and frequently a cleft palate. There is a continuum with overlapping clinical findings between atelosteogenesis I, atelosteogenesis III and boomerang dysplasia. This disease results from heterozygous mutations in exons 2-5 and 27-33 of the gene encoding filamin B (FLNB) located to 3p14.
kenny caffey syndrome	A genetic condition characterized by long bone sclerosis and thickening, short stature, and head and eye anomalies. Many affected individuals have hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia.
metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, jansen type	A form of metaphyseal chondrodysplasia caused by mutation(s) in the PTH1R gene, encoding parathyroid hormone/parathyroid hormone-related peptide receptor. This condition is characterized by severe short stature, short bowed limbs, clinodactyly, prominent upper face, and a small mandible. Hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia due to PTH resistance can appear later in childhood.
myhre riley smith syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
ruvalcaba myhre smith syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
mental deficiency, epilepsy and endocrine disorders	An X-linked recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the PHF6 gene, encoding PHD finger protein 6. It is characterized by severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, hypogonadism, hypometabolism, and obesity.
mrxsbfl	An X-linked recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the PHF6 gene, encoding PHD finger protein 6. It is characterized by severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, hypogonadism, hypometabolism, and obesity.
rieger's anomaly	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
rieger syndrome	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
jarcho-levin syndrome	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
autosomal recessive spondylocostal dysostosis	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
donohue syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome of extreme insulin resistance due to mutations in the binding domain of INSULIN RECEPTOR. Clinical features include severe intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction, characteristic dysmorphic FACIES; HIRSUTISM; VIRILIZATION; multiple endocrine abnormalities, and early death.
charge association	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome usually caused by mutations in the CHD7 gene. The term CHARGE is an acronym for the following unusual congenital abnormalities that are associated with this syndrome: coloboma of the eye, heart defects, choanal atresia, growth and developmental retardation, genital, and ear abnormalities.
fetal hydantoin syndrome (disorder)	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
fetal hydantoin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
syndrome; hydantoin, fetal	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
foetal warfarin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
congenital nose malformation	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nasal deformity	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
mulberry molar (disorder)	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
ectopic tooth	<p>Ectopic tooth</p>
mesiodens tooth	A supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:18262485, PMID:31468724]
gemination of teeth	The development of two teeth from a single tooth bud, leading to a larger fused tooth. [PMID:18167487]
enamel pearls (diagnosis)	Small nodules of enamel on the root of a tooth. [PMID:31468724]
megalodontia	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
peg-shaped tooth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
precocious tooth eruption	Premature tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD earlier than the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
anterior crossbite (physical finding)	<p>Anterior crossbite</p>
aob - anterior openbite	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
apertognathia	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
bite opening	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
posterior open bite	<p>Posterior open bite</p>
overbite (excessive) deep	Increased superior-inferior overlap of the maxillary central incisors over the mandibular central incisors relative to the incisal ridges.
cheilognathopalatoschisis (disorder)	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip, hard and/or soft palate and upper jaw.
bilobed tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
double tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
congenital absence of uvula	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
ambiguities, genital	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
abnormality congenital uterine	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital abnormality of uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
infantile uterus	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital ear malformation	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of the ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
situs ambiguus	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
cyclopia sequence	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
cebocephaly	Two orbital cavities and two eyes present, the region between being narrowed. Expected skeletal alterations include fused frontonasal and/or maxillary bones and incisors. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
celosomus (disorder)	Congenital protrusion of the abdominal or thoracic viscera, usually with a defect of the sternum and ribs as well as of the abdominal walls. [HPO:sdoelken]
ppsh	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
5a-reductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
partial androgen insensitivity syndrome (disorder)	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
reifenstein syndrome	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
brachmann-de lange syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
syndrome, brachmann-de lange	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
goiters, lingual	Sjuklig förstoring av lingual tyreoidea, ektopisk sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Tillståndet kan ge upphov till luftvägshinder, sväljningssvårigheter eller hypertyreossymtom.
indeterminate sex, unspecified	Outer genital organs are not visually male or female.
indeterminate sex (diagnosis)	Outer genital organs are not visually male or female.
caudal dysplasia sequence (disorder)	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by partial or complete absence of the lower portion of the spine.
gingival cyst	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
congenital arteriovenous fistula, nos	structural anomaly present at birth which allows direct passage of blood from an artery to a vein.
septo-optic dysplasia	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
de morsier syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
capillary malformation	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
capillary malformation (disorder)	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
bifid scrotum	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
thyroid hypoplasia	Incomplete development of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
endemic cretinism	Severely reduced physical and mental growth associated with pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, due to dietary iodine deficiency.
cholesterol monooxygenase (side-chain cleaving) deficiency	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
posterior lenticonus (disorder)	A conical projection of the posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:gblack]
pulmonary; stenosis, in tetralogy of fallot	The commonest form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by pulmonary stenosis, overriding aorta, ventricular septum defect, and right ventricular hypertrophy, without pulmonary atresia, absent pulmonary valve, atrioventricular canal defect or absent subarterial conus. [HPO:probinson]
atresia; pulmonary, in tetralogy of fallot	An extreme form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by absence of flow from the right ventricle to the pulmonary arteries. [ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22368654]
hypoplasia; vagina	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
morgagni hydatid cyst	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
penile duplication	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
epulis, congenital	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
cleft lip bilateral	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on the left and right sides. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral cleft upper lip	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on one side only. [HPO:probinson]
hypomelia-hypotrichosis-facial hemangioma syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
developmental absence of tooth	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
complete congenital absence of teeth (disorder)	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
extra cusp	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
talon cusps	Talon cusp is an accessory cusp located near the cingulum (the portion of the lingual or palatal aspect of the tooth that forms a convex protuberance at the cervical third of the anatomic crown). [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
premature tooth exfoliation	Loss of the primary (also known as deciduous) teeth before the usual age. [HPO:sdoelken]
ankyloblepharon, ectodermal defects, cleft lip and palate	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
pseudoachondroplastic dysplasia	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the COMP gene. It is characterized by short stature, short arms and legs, waddling walk, osteoarthritis, and limited range of motion at the elbows and hips.
cingulosynapsis	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
holoprosencephaly, lobar	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
atrophy of corpus callosum	The presence of atrophy (wasting) of the corpus callosum. [HPO:sdoelken]
acf	Asymmetry observed in the face of a neonate or infant whose face appears symmetric at rest and asymmetric during crying as the mouth is pulled downward on one side while not moving on the other side. [HPO:cwright]
synophrys (disorder)	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
duplication of eyebrow	This may present as a partial or complete duplication of the eyebrows. [HPO:sdoelken]
double eyebrow (disorder)	This may present as a partial or complete duplication of the eyebrows. [HPO:sdoelken]
lobulated tongue	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
lingual hamartoma	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
cryptorchism; unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
webbed penis	Ventral skinfold extending from penis to scrotum. [PMID:23650202]
cleft soft palate, central	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
submucous cleft of hard palate (disorder)	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
autosomal recessive spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of disproportionate short-trunked short stature, pectus carinatum, short arms, short and broad hands, short metatarsals, flat and broad feet, coxa vara, genu valgum, osteoarthritis, arthrosis and moderate-to-serious gait impairment. The syndrome has been described among Venezuelan Indians of the Yukpa (Irapa) tribe and three siblings from a Mexican mestizo family. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
epiphyseal dysplasia, multiple, with early-onset diabetes mellitus	A rare, autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the EIF2AK3 gene, which encodes translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase-3. The condition is characterized by the following: permanent insulin-dependent diabetes, with onset in the neonatal period or infancy; epiphyseal dysplasia; deficient bone mineralization, diagnosed in the first year or two of life; and liver dysfunction, occurring in early childhood. Other features may include intellectual deficit, hypothyroidism, renal dysfunction, neutropenia, and thyroid dysfunction. The manifestations and clinical course are variable.
trps i - trichorhinophalangeal syndrome i	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
fetal accutane syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
thalidomide embryopathy	Fetal embryopathy associated with maternal thalidomide use during pregnancy characterized by phocomelia of one or all limbs, other limb defects such as thumb abnormalities, and other structural anomalies that may include facial hemangioma, esophageal and duodenal atresia, tetralogy of Fallot, renal agenesis, and anomalies of the external ear. Long term complications may include Moebius syndrome or autism.
foetal methotrexate syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
congenital malformation syndromes due to known exogenous causes (disorder)	A syndrome characterized by the presence of structural malformations that are present at birth and can be attributed to an exogenous cause.
congenital malformation syndrome related to known exogenous cause	A syndrome characterized by the presence of structural malformations that are present at birth and can be attributed to an exogenous cause.
penoscrotal; hypospadias	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
penoscrotal hypospadias was observed	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
perineal hypospadias	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8097257]
retractile testis	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
congenital arteriovenous anomaly of the gastrointestinal tract	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
perheentupa syndrome	Vrozená porucha růstu, která je způsobena mutací genu (TRIM37) na chromozomu 17q22-Q23, který kóduje RING-B-box-coiled-coil protein.
pentalogy of cantrell	Rare congenital deformity syndrome characterized by a combination of five anomalies as a result of neural tube defect. The five anomalies are a midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect (e.g., OMPHALOCELE), a lower STERNUM defect, a congenital intracardiac defect, an anterior DIAPHRAGM defect, and a diaphragmatic PERICARDIUM defect (e.g., PERICARDIAL EFFUSION). Variants with incomplete and variable combinations of the defects are known. ECTOPIA CORDIS; CLEFT LIP; and CLEFT PALATE are often associated with the syndrome.
oj - overjet	Přesah horních řezáků před dolními v horizontálním směru. Mírný p. je fyziologický, je dán větší šířkou horního zubního oblouku. Při poruchách mezičelistních vztahů může dojít ke skusu "hrana na hranu\" nebo k obrácenému skusu, kdy dolní řezáky stojí před horními. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
single naris	The presence of only a single nostril. [PMID:19152422]
rhinocephaly	A congenital anatomic defect characterised by the presence of a proboscis-like nose located above the eyes, which are partially or completely fused.
cns vascular malformation	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
vascular malformations, cns	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
bardet-biedl syndrome	En autosomal, recessiv störning kännetecknad av retinitis pigmentosa, polydaktyli, övervikt, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, hypogenitalism, njurdysplasi och kortvuxenhet. Syndromet skiljer sig från Laurence-Moons syndrom.
cyst, rathke's cleft	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
cleft cyst, rathke	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
laryngotracheal stenosis, arthropathy, prognathism, and short stature	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SMAD4 gene. It is characterized by developmental abnormalities, mild to moderate intellectual disability, hearing loss, skin stiffness, skeletal abnormalities, and typical facial features (short palpebral fissures, shortened distance between the nose and upper lip, midface hypoplasia, prognathism, cleft palate, and/or cleft lip).
penis hypospadias	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is below its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the ventral surface of the PENIS or on the PERINEUM. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is in the VAGINA.
hajdu-cheney syndrome	Rare, autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by ACRO-OSTEOLYSIS, generalized OSTEOPOROSIS, and skull deformations.
cerebral arteriovenous malformation (disorder)	An anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the brain. []
carpenter's syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
cardiofaciocutaneous (cfc) syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome most often caused by BRAF gene mutations. It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance (high forehead, short nose, and widely spaced eyes), sparse and brittle hair, skin disorders, heart malformations, mental retardation and developmental delay.
fetal akinesia deformation sequence 1	Decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures, facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia. Ultrasound examination may reveal polyhydramnios, ankylosis, scalp edema, and decreased chest movements (reflecting pulmonary hypoplasia). [HPO:probinson]
false anodontia (diagnosis)	Absence of teeth as a result of impaction, delayed eruption, exfoliation or extraction.
abnormal complement of teeth	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
agenesis of permanent teeth	A congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth, including oligodontia, hypodontia, and adontia of the of permanent teeth. [HPO:probinson]
anodontia of permanent dentition (disorder)	A congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth, including oligodontia, hypodontia, and adontia of the of permanent teeth. [HPO:probinson]
cleft lip & alveolus	<p>Cleft lip & alveolus</p>
mittendorf dot	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
thanatophoric dysplasia, type 1	Thanatophoric dysplasia characterized by a normally shaped skull and curved femurs. It is the most common type of thanatophoric dysplasia.
thanatophoric dysplasia, type ii	Thanatophoric dysplasia characterized by a cloverleaf-like skull and straight femurs.
multiple congenital anomalies	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
acrocephalosyndactyly	Congenital craniostenosis with syndactyly.
galen malformations veins	Congenital arteriovenous malformation involving the VEIN OF GALEN, a large deep vein at the base of the brain. The rush of arterial blood directly into the vein of Galen, without passing through the CAPILLARIES, can overwhelm the heart and lead to CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
hypospadias, penile	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
urethral meatus underneath penis	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
opd syndrome, type 2	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
otopalatodigital syndrome	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
raine syndrome	A rare disorder defined by generalised osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation, characteristic facial dysmorphism, brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications, and neonatal lethal course. Mutations in the FAM20C gene have a causative role in lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
multiple pterygium syndrome, lethal type	A rare variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by severe athrogryposis, pterygium, akinesia and often hydrops fetalis and cystic hygroma. This variant is fatal, usually during the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
dyssegmental dysplasia silverman-handmaker type	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia and lethal form of neonatal short-limbed dwarfism, with characteristics of anisospondyly, severe short stature and limb shortening, metaphyseal flaring and distinct dysmorphic features (flat facial appearance, abnormal ears, short neck, narrow thorax). Additional features may include other skeletal findings (for example joint contractures, bowed limbs, talipes equinovarus) and urogenital and cardiovascular abnormalities.
shone complex	A congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the presence of subvalvar left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, coarctation of the aorta, and mitral stenosis.
congenital penoscrotal transposition	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the partial or complete transposition of the penis and scrotum. In cases of complete penoscrotal transposition, the scrotum is positioned anteriorly and above the penis. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
vm - vascular malformation	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
radial ray hypoplasia with choanal atresia	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
cleft roof of mouth	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
fasds	A group of disorders caused by a prenatal exposure to maternal consumption of alcohol leading to a range of behavioral, cognitive and neurological deficits in the offspring. It is characterized by physical growth problems, distinct facies, and varying psycho-neurological issues.
displaced lobar tracheal bronchus	Accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:11158647, PMID:19332762]
congenital iodine-deficiency syndrome, unspecified	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth and caused by iodine deficiency.
waardenburg's syndrome	rare, autosomal dominant disease with variable penetrance and several known clinical subtypes; characteristics may include depigmentation of the hair and skin, congenital deafness, heterochromia iridis, medial eyebrow hyperplasia, hypertrophy of the nasal root, and especially dystopia canthorum; the underlying cause may be defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy); may be closely related to piebaldism; Klein-Waardenburg Syndrome refers to a disorder that also includes upper limb abnormalities.
pena-shokeir syndrome type 2	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
developmental delay (disorder)	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
developmental delay	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
development delay - nos	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
unspecified delay in development	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
delayed developmental milestones	Failure to meet, or late achievement of developmental milestones.
multiple anomalies	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
albinism (disorder)	General term for a number of inherited defects of amino acid metabolism in which there is a deficiency or absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, or hair.
amelia	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
amelogenesis imperfecta	A clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of hereditary conditions characterized by malformed DENTAL ENAMEL, usually involving DENTAL ENAMEL HYPOPLASIA and/or TOOTH HYPOMINERALIZATION.
amniotic band syndrome (diagnosis)	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
aniridia	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
clinical anophthalmos, unspecified (disorder)	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
anophthalmos	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
imperforate anus (disorder)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
obstruction; arnold-chiari	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
arnold-chiari deformity	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
atresia; bile duct	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
cleft lip nos	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft palate, unspecified	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
ocular coloboma, nos	Congenital anomaly in which some of the structures of the eye are absent due to incomplete fusion of the fetal intraocular fissure during gestation.
meningocele, cerebral	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
spinal meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
premature closure of the cranial sutures	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
progressive diaphyseal dysplasia	An autosomal dominant form of dysplasia that is characterized by progressive thickening of diaphyseal cortex of long bones. Mutations in the gene that encodes TRANSFORMING GROWTH FACTOR BETA1 are one cause of this disorder.
diastematomyelia	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
down syndrome	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
dysplasia ectodermal	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectodermal dysplasias	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectopic heart	A rare developmental defect in which the heart is abnormally located partially or totally outside the THORAX. It is the result of defective fusion of the anterior chest wall. Depending on the location of the heart, ectopia cordis can be thoracic, thoracoabdominal, abdominal, and cervical.
congenital ectopic lens	Congenital displacement of the lens resulting from defective zonule formation.
eisenmenger syndrome	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
hereditary elliptocytosis	An intrinsic defect of erythrocytes inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. The erythrocytes assume an oval or elliptical shape.
hereditary elliptocytosis, nos	An intrinsic defect of erythrocytes inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. The erythrocytes assume an oval or elliptical shape.
cushion defect, endocardial	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
endocardial cushion defects	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
esophageal atresia	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
anomaly; heart, septum	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
macrocolon	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
screwdriver teeth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
cornea; conical	A noninflammatory, usually bilateral protrusion of the cornea, the apex being displaced downward and nasally. It occurs most commonly in females at about puberty. The cause is unknown but hereditary factors may play a role. The -conus refers to the cone shape of the corneal protrusion. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
spina bifida cystica	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
micrognathisms	Abnormally small jaw.
phocomelia	Missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts (such as hands and/or feet) connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
placenta accreta	Abnormal placentation in which all or parts of the PLACENTA are attached directly to the MYOMETRIUM due to a complete or partial absence of DECIDUA. It is associated with POSTPARTUM HEMORRHAGE because of the failure of placental separation.
platybasia	A developmental deformity of the occipital bone and upper end of the cervical spine, in which the latter appears to have pushed the floor of the occipital bone upward. (Dorland, 27th ed)
subvalvular pulmonic stenosis	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
pulmonary infundibular stenoses	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
respiratory congenital anomaly	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
situs inversus	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
sturge-kalischer-weber syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
tetralogy; fallot	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
supernumerary tooth	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
fallot's trilogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of three key features including ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; and RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY.
siamese twins	MONOZYGOTIC TWINS who are joined in utero. They may be well developed and share only a superficial connection, often in the frontal, transverse or sagittal body plane, or they may share a partial duplication of a body structure. Alternatively, there may be a small and incompletely developed twin conjoined to a larger, more fully developed twin.
conjoined twins	MONOZYGOTIC TWINS who are joined in utero. They may be well developed and share only a superficial connection, often in the frontal, transverse or sagittal body plane, or they may share a partial duplication of a body structure. Alternatively, there may be a small and incompletely developed twin conjoined to a larger, more fully developed twin.
ureterocele	A cystic dilatation of the end of a URETER as it enters into the URINARY BLADDER. It is characterized by the ballooning of the ureteral orifice into the lumen of the bladder and may obstruct urine flow.
branchial cleft	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
spina bifida, nos	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
polycystic kidney disease, infantile, type i	A genetic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance, characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS and associated LIVER lesions. Serious manifestations are usually present at BIRTH with high PERINATAL MORTALITY.
myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
congenital deformity of musculoskeletal system nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
cor biloculare	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only two chambers.
congenital; aphakia	Absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect. [HPO:probinson]
microtia	Underdevelopment of the external ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421, PMID:3270622]
craniorachischisis	A rare and severe form of neural tube defect in which there are open cranial and open spinal defects at birth.
polydactyly, nos	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
hydromyelia (diagnosis)	Dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo. [HPO:sdoelken]
optic nerve head pits, bilateral congenital	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
preauricular cyst	Preauricular sinus is an occasional finding and most frequently appears as a small pit close to the anterior margin of the ascending portion of the helix. The opening has also been reported along the postero superior margin of the helix, the tragus or the lobule. Preauricular sinus may lead to the formation of a subcutaneous cyst that is intimately related to the tragal cartilage and the anterior crus of the helix. [PMID:24427573]
congenital malformation of urinary system, unspecified	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
cervical rib	A supernumerary rib developing from an abnormal enlargement of the costal element of the C7 vertebra. This anomaly is found in 1-2% of the population and can put pressure on adjacent structures causing CERVICAL RIB SYNDROME; THORACIC OUTLET SYNDROME; or other conditions.
caroli disease	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
dysplastic or absent corpus callosum	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
dysplasia, odontogenic	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
congenital anomaly of limb	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
adrenal hypoplasia, congenital	A rare genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It usually presents in infancy with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. If it is not recognized and treated promptly, it may be lethal.
kasabach-merritt syndrome	Rapidly growing vascular lesion along the midline axis of the neck, upper trunk, and extremities that is characterized by CONSUMPTION COAGULOPATHY; THROMBOCYTOPENIA; and HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA. It is often associated with infantile Kaposiform HEMANGIOENDOTHELIOMA and other vascular tumors such as tufted ANGIOMA.
pterygium; colli	A congenital, usually bilateral, thick web-like fold of skin that extends from the acromion to the mastoid process. This deformity is associated with Turner Syndrome and Noonan Syndrome.
congenital diaphragmatic hernia	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
ectopic kidneys	A developmental defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal anatomic position. [HPO:probinson]
adactylia (disorder)	The absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues. [PMID:19125433]
palate; high	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
retinochoroidal coloboma	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
pulm atresias	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
pulm valve atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
tricuspid atresia	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
chondroectodermal dysplasia-like syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by a narrow thorax, micromelia, and respiratory disturbances which may lead to asphyxiation. It may be associated with bilateral microcystic renal disease which may lead to renal failure.
weill-marchesani syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
mosaic trisomy 20 syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal (in the majority of cases) to a mild, subtle phenotype. Principle characteristics are spinal abnormalities (stenosis, vertebral fusion, and kyphosis), hypotonia, lifelong constipation, sloped shoulders, skin pigmentation abnormalities (linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis) and significant learning disabilities despite normal intelligence. More severe phenotypes, with patients presenting psychomotor and speech delay, mild facial dysmorphism, cardiac (ventricular septal defect, dysplastic tricuspid mitral valve) and renal anomalies (horseshoe kidneys) have also been reported.
trisomy; syndrome, 22	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
ces	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
bone island	An osteoma that develops in the medullary cavity of the bone.
scaphycephaly	Premature fusion of the sagittal suture.
cranioschisis	Fissure of the cranial region of the head with varying degrees of the brain exposed. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
polymelia (disorder)	Polymelia is a congenital anomaly, which is defined as the presence of accessory limbs attached to various body regions and could be classified as cephalomelia (extra-limb attached to the head), notomelia (extra-limb attached to the back bone), thoracomelia (extra-limb attached to the thorax), and pyromelia (extra-limb attached to the pelvis). [PMID:23814690]
meromelia	Partial absence of a free limb (excluding girdle). It can refer to the proximal, middle or distal segment of the upper or lower limb. The deficiency may be transverse or longitudinal. Thus, meromelia is a lack of a part, but not all, of one or more limbs with the presence of a hand or foot. [UToronto:chum]
dimelia (diagnosis)	Congenital duplication of all or part of a limb. []
hand ectrodactyly	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
ectrodactyly of fingers	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital pseudoarthrosis of the clavicle	The two portions of the clavicle (corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle) are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum, and a synovial membrane develops, resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically. Congenital pseudarthrosis of the clavicle generally presents as a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22295044]
carpal bones; accessory	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
congenital absence of foot	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
congenital pseudarthrosis of tibia	A condition characterized by non-union of the tibia, which is present at birth. It is usually associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.
patella; bipartite	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hunchback	An abnormally increased curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine that is present at the time of birth.
congenital kyphosis	An abnormally increased curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine that is present at the time of birth.
scoliosis; congenital, postural	Abnormal sideways curvature of the spine that is present at birth.
congenital postural scoliosis	Abnormal sideways curvature of the spine that is present at birth.
rib fusion	Complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs. [HPO:probinson]
gastroschisis	A congenital defect with major fissure in the ABDOMINAL WALL lateral to, but not at, the UMBILICUS. This results in the extrusion of VISCERA. Unlike OMPHALOCELE, herniated structures in gastroschisis are not covered by a sac or PERITONEUM.
congenital deformity of nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of nose nos (disorder)	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
aortic valve atresia	A rare congenital heart defect characterized by the complete failure of the aortic valve to open. It is manifested during infancy with cyanosis, dyspnea, and rapidly progressing heart failure.
uhl's anomaly	Uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium, normal tricuspid valve, and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium. [PMID:10859296, PMID:16322929]
congenital alopecia, unspecified (disorder)	A congenital condition characterized by the absence of hair on the scalp or entire body. The lack of hair is rarely absolute and is usually accompanied by incompletely grown, lanugo-like hair. It affects males twice as much as females and a familial tendency is common.
anonychia	Aplasia of the nail. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of breast	Failure to develop and congenital absence of the breast. []
hypoplasia of breast	A disorder characterized by underdevelopment of the breast.
congenital anomaly of digestive system (diagnosis)	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
gastrointestinal duplication (diagnosis)	A spherical hollow structure with a smooth muscle coat, lined by a mucous membrane, and attached to any part of the gastrointestinal tract, from the base of the tongue to the anus. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21218094]
ectopic dentition	<p>Ectopic tooth</p>
supernumerary mesiodens tooth	A supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:18262485, PMID:31468724]
excessive overbite	Increased superior-inferior overlap of the maxillary central incisors over the mandibular central incisors relative to the incisal ridges.
congenital microgastria	A developmental anomaly wtih a small tubular or saccular midline stomach. [PMID:10067744]
aplasia of the gallbladder	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
liver; agenesis	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; pancreas	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
divisum pancreas	A congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development. Three variants have been described: type 1 or classical divisum in which there is total failure of fusion; type 2 in which dorsal drainage is dominant in the absence of the duct of Wirsung; and type 3 or incomplete divisum where a small communicating branch is present. [PMID:24265565]
adrenal aplasia	Absent development of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
ectopic adrenal gland	Abnormal anatomical location of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
functioning kidney, single	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of only one kidney.
renal hypoplasia (disorder)	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
accessory; kidney	A congenital anomaly of the urinary tract, in which the kidney is duplicated and is drained via two separate renal pelves and ureters. [HPO:probinson]
double kidney (disorder)	A congenital abnormality of the kidney characterized by the presence of two separate pelvicocaliceal systems with a single or duplex ureter.
congenital fusion of kidneys	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
congenital lobulation of kidneys	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
microcystic renal disease (disorder)	A congenital renal disorder characterized by the presence of small cysts in the renal cortex and/or renal medulla.
impervious ureter	A developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen (tube) of the ureter. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hydroureter	Dilatation of the ureter caused by obstruction of urine flow that is present at birth.
ectopic ureter (disorder)	A congenital anomaly in which the ureteral orifice drains into an abnormal location.
congenital absence of ovary	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
ectopic ovary	Undescended or ectopic ovaries are characterized by the attachment of the upper pole of the ovary to an area above the level of the common iliac vessels. [PMID:12584384]
accessory; oviduct	The presence of a supernumerary Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23532389]
uterine agenesis	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
uterus didelphus	A malformation of the uterus in which the uterus is present as a paired organ as a result of the failure of fusion of the mullerian ducts during embryogenesis. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis and aplasia of cervix	Congenital absence of the cervix. []
congenital vaginal septum	The presence of a vaginal septum, thereby creating a vaginal duplication. The septum is longitudinal in the majority of cases. [HPO:curators]
labial agglutination	Synechia vulvae (adhesions of the labia minora) are characterized by a complete or partial fusion of the labia minora in the midline. [PMID:17364294, PMID:29262197]
polyorchism (disorder)	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of the vas deferens	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
ecchordosis physaliphora	A very rare, slow growing, usually asymptomatic hamartomatous lesion that arises from ectopic notochordal tissue. Morphologically it is characterized by the presence of typical physaliphorous cells in a myxoid background.
sinus pericranii	Vzácné anomální spojení mezi intrakraniálním a extrakraniálním žilním oběhem přes diploe, střední houbovitou vrstvu lebečních kostí. Abnormální drenáž intrakraniálních žilních splavů vede často k dilataci žilních struktur skalpu. Onemocnění může být vrozené nebo způsobené poraněním.
myeloschisis (disorder) [ambiguous]	The severe form of a neural tube defect where the open neural tube appears as a flattened, plate-like mass of nervous tissue with no overlying membrane. [PMID:20885122, UToronto:chum]
amyelia	Congenital absence of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
absent spinal cord	Congenital absence of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital absence of eyelid	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
extra eyelid	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
congenital anomaly of ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
external acoustic meatus atresia	Absence or failure to form of the external auditory canal. [HPO:probinson]
preauricular appendage	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
extra cartilage in front of the ear	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
accessory auricle	The presence of an extra auricle on one or both sides of the head. [HPO:sdoelken]
supernumerary spleen	Homogeneous organ, each instance of which is a connected or detached part or enclave of some spleen.
ectopic spleen	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
splenogonadal fusion (disorder)	Joining of the spleen and a gonad during embryological development. [PMID:24137272]
amyelencephaly	Congenital absence of the spinal cord and brain
brain aplasia, congenital	Congenital absence of the spinal cord and brain
acardius	A condition which occurs in monozygotic twins in which one of the fetuses supplies the majority of the cardiac output to its co-twin through its umbilical artery. The recipient twin has only rudimentary organs and structure and is not viable.
retinitis pigmentosa-deafness-ataxia syndrome (disorder)	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
aplasia cutis congenita	Localized or widespread congenital absence of skin. The lesions most frequently occur in the scalp, are well demarcated, may be superficial or deep, and are not associated with inflammation.
gingival cyst (diagnosis)	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
hemihypertrophy	A condition in which one side of the body or a part of one side is larger than the other. Children with hemihypertrophy have an increased risk of developing certain types of cancer, including Wilms tumor (a childhood kidney cancer) and liver cancer.
congenital thyroid hypoplasia (disorder)	Incomplete development of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
sacrum; agenesis	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
unopened tear duct	A developmental disorder of the lacrimal drainage system that most often affects the lacrimal ostium and resulting in non-opening of the nasolacrimal duct. It usually results from a non-canalization of the nasolacrimal duct. [HPO:probinson]
cornea flattened	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
cor triloculare (disorder)	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only three chambers.
mitral atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
congenital absence of pericardium	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
atresia of large intestine (disorder)	A malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the large intestine.
congenital hypoplasia of gallbladder	The presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
fistula of urachus	Persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus. [Eurenomics:ewuehl]
congenital fistula of urachus (disorder)	Persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus. [Eurenomics:ewuehl]
short femur	An abnormal shortening of the femur. [HPO:probinson]
supernumerary rib	The presence of more than 12 rib pairs. [HPO:probinson]
common; atrium	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
lymphatic malformation	Medfödda eller förvärvade strukturella avvikelser i lymfsystemet, inklusive lymfkärlen.
disorder of lymphatic vessel lymphatic malformation	Medfödda eller förvärvade strukturella avvikelser i lymfsystemet, inklusive lymfkärlen.
congenital absence of teeth (diagnosis)	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
kohlschutter-tonz syndrome	Ameliogenesis imperfecta, mental retardation, and epileptic seizures
dysplasias skeletal	A general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic clavicles	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
absence of septum pellucidum	Absence of the septum pellucidum. [HPO:probinson]
carpal synostosis	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
nervous system; anomaly	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital eyelid coloboma	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
ectopic cilia	An eyelash that emerges from the underside (conjunctiva) of the upper or lower eyelid. [GOC:MG, http://www.eyecareforanimals.com/animal-eye-conditions/general/251-distichiasis-trichiasis-ectopic-cilia.html]
renal agenesis, unspecified	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
bifid nail	A digit with two nails, with at least some soft tissue between them. [PMID:19125433]
supernumerary metacarpal bones	The presence of more than the normal number of metacarpal bones. [HPO:curators]
parachute malformation of mitral valve	Abnormality of the mitral valve apparatus, whereby chordae attach to a single papillary muscle or hypoplastic papillary muscles. [DDD:dbrown]
branchial fistula	A congenital fistula in the neck resulting from incomplete closure of a branchial cleft. [HPO:sdoelken]
overjet	Přesah horních řezáků před dolními v horizontálním směru. Mírný p. je fyziologický, je dán větší šířkou horního zubního oblouku. Při poruchách mezičelistních vztahů může dojít ke skusu "hrana na hranu\" nebo k obrácenému skusu, kdy dolní řezáky stojí před horními. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
asplenia	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
congenital short radius	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
supernumerary rib, short	An extra rib at the cervicothoracic border with the distal extremity rounded, length less than one third of the length of the ossified portion of the first thoracic rib and no costal cartilage distal. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
thoracogastroschisis	Fissure of thoracic and abdominal walls with thoracic and abdominal viscera, or major parts thereof, exposed ventrally. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
ventricular septal defect, muscular	The trabecular septum is the largest part of the interventricular septum. It extends from the membranous septum to the apex and superiorly to the infundibular septum. A defect in the trabecular septum is called muscular VSD if the defect is completely rimmed by muscle. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:17101870]
cleft face	A congenital malformation with a cleft (gap or opening) in the face. [HPO:probinson]
ovary; hypoplasia	Developmental hypoplasia of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
thymus hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the thymus. [HPO:curators]
absent thymus	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
acranius	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
thyroid agenesis	Absence of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
amniocele	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
omphalocele	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
x-linked mental handicap-retinitis pigmentosa syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of moderate intellectual deficit and severe, early-onset retinitis pigmentosa. It has been described in five males spanning three generations of one family. Some patients also had microcephaly. It is transmitted as an X-linked recessive trait.
hemoglobin h-related mental retardation	A congenital contiguous gene deletion syndrome, which is a form of alpha-thalassemia characterized by microcytosis, hypochromia, normal hemoglobin level or mild anemia, associated with developmental abnormalities. Caused by large deletions on chromosome band 16p13.3 which remove the alpha-globin genes (HBA1 and HBA2), and many other flanking genes. The gene(s) responsible for intellectual deficiency and other developmental abnormalities has not been clearly identified. All cases are due to de novo deletions or segregation for parental translocations inherited in an unbalanced manner. The prognosis is highly variable, depending on the degree of intellectual deficiency.
corectopia (diagnosis)	A malposition of the pupil owing to a developmental defect of the iris. [DDD:gblack, HPO:probinson]
congenital hamartoma	A benign tumor-like nodule composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues which is present at birth.
exomphalos	A HERNIA due to an imperfect closure or weakness of the umbilical ring. It appears as a skin-covered protrusion at the UMBILICUS during crying, coughing, or straining. The hernia generally consists of OMENTUM or SMALL INTESTINE. The vast majority of umbilical hernias are congenital but can be acquired due to severe abdominal distention.
congenital absent parathyroid gland	Aplasia of the parathyroid gland. [HPO:probinson]
monosomy 1p36 syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by the deletion of the distal band on the short arm of chromosome 1. It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance (microcephaly, deep set eyes, flat nose, and pointed chin), developmental abnormalities, mental retardation, seizures, hypotonia, hearing loss, and heart defects.
phelan-mcdermid syndrome	A chromosome microdeletion syndrome with characteristics of neonatal hypotonia, global developmental delay, normal to accelerated growth, absent to severely delayed speech, and minor dysmorphic features.
vascular malformation, nos	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
chromosome 22q11.2 duplication syndrome	La asociación de un amplio espectro clínico y una duplicación de la región con deleción en pacientes con síndromes de DiGeorge o velocardiofacial, lo que establece un síndrome de duplicación complementaria. La presentación clínica en los pacientes es extremadamente variable y comparte características con los síndromes de deleción de 22q11.2, incluyendo defectos cardíacos, anomalías urogenitales, insuficiencia velofaríngea con fisura de paladar o sin ella y varía desde múltiples defectos hasta dificultades leves del aprendizaje y algunos individuos son prácticamente normales.
sternum bifidum	The sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum. [HPO:probinson]
albright hereditary osteodystrophy-like syndrome	A syndrome of high phenotypic variability caused by contiguous gene deletions in 2q37. The inheritance is autosomal dominant. The condition may be characterized by brachydactly type E; mental retardation; short stature; and other skeletal, cardiovascular, and neurologic manifestations.
dysplasia kidney	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
abscess; pilonidal	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
congenital cardiovascular disorder (disorder)	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
proximal 16p11.2 microdeletion syndrome (disorder)	A chromosomal anomaly with characteristics of developmental and language delays, mild intellectual disability, social impairments (autism spectrum disorders), mild variable dysmorphism and predisposition to obesity. The proximal 16p11.2 microdeletion syndrome most commonly refers to a distinct deletion of approximately 593 kb at chromosomal coordinates 29.5-30.1 Mb comprising 24 genes. The relationship between genotype and clinical phenotype remains elusive.
fraxe intellectual disability syndrome	FRAXE is a form of nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation with characteristic of mild intellectual deficit. The estimated prevalence in the general population is between 1 in 100,000 and 1 in 150,000. FRAXE manifests in individuals with more than 200 CCG repeats in the 5' UTR of the AFF2 gene (Xq28).
fraxf syndrome	FRAXF syndrome was originally identified in a family with developmental delay and an expanded CCG repeat at the folate-sensitive FRAXF fragile site. Since this initial description, FRAXF has been associated with a range of manifestations but no clear phenotype has been established. Prevalence is unknown. The FRAXF fragile site is located at Xq28 within the 5'UTR of the TMEM185A gene.
1p21.3 microdeletion syndrome	An extremely rare chromosomal anomaly with characteristics of severe speech and language delay, intellectual deficiency, autism spectrum disorder. Less than 10 cases have been reported to date. The syndrome is caused by a hemizygous interstitial microdeletion on the short arm of chromosome 1, occurring mostly de novo, that implicates DPYD (dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase) and MIR137 genes associated with miRNA pathways.
distal 16p11.2 microdeletion syndrome	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from the partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 16. The disease has a highly variable phenotype with typical characteristics of developmental delay, mild intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder. Macrocephaly (apparent by 2 years of age), structural brain malformations, epilepsy, vertebral anomalies and obesity are frequently associated.
absent penis	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
encephalocele	A congenital neural tube closure defect resulting in the protrusion of the brain through a skull opening. When the protrusion includes the meninges, the term encephalomeningocele is used.
partial trisomy chromosome 7p distal	Una anomalía cromosómica rara, producida por duplicación parcial del brazo corto del cromosoma 7. El trastorno tiene un fenotipo muy variable, con características típicas de retraso psicomotor profundo, discapacidad intelectual, características dismórficas (incluyendo dolicocefalia, microbraquicefalia, frente alta y/o ancha, hipertelorismo, fisuras con inclinación antimongoloide, orejas displásicas de implantación baja, puente nasal bajo, ancho y prominente, paladar anormal, micrognatia/retrognatia) e hipotonía. Frecuentemente se informaron anomalías cardiovasculares, gastrointestinales, esqueléticas y urogenitales.
telomeric duplication 20q	Una anomalía cromosómica rara, con un fenotipo muy variable, producida por trisomía parcial del brazo largo del cromosoma 20. La enfermedad se caracteriza por retraso del desarrollo neurológico, malformaciones cardíacas (defecto del tabique interventricular, coartación de aorta) y dismorfismo facial (Frente alta y ancha, microftalmía, fisuras palpebrales con inclinación mongoloide, epicanto, orejas largas, grandes y de implantación baja, fosas nasales en anteversión, labio superiro sobresaliente, fisura de labio o paladar, micrognatia/retrognatia, hoyuelo en el mentón. También se informaron anomalías esqueléticas (braquidactilia, escoliosis, pectus excavatum) y cerebrales.
congenital hypotrichia	A congenital condition, usually due to genetic aberrations, that is characterized by a lack of hair growth on the head and/or body.
distal monosomy 7q11.23	A rare chromosomal anomaly characterised by epilepsy, neurodevelopmental disorder variably including developmental delays and intellectual disabilities of variable severity, learning disability and neurobehavioural abnormalities (autism spectrum disorder, hyperactivity, impulsivity, aggression, self-abusive behaviours, depression).
distal 7q11.23 microduplication syndrome	A rare chromosomal anomaly with characteristics of a predominantly neuropsychiatric phenotype with a few dysmorphic features. Speech delay, learning difficulties, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder and aggressiveness have been reported.
monosomy 7q31	A rare chromosomal anomaly with characteristics of speech and language disorder, predominantly presenting as an apraxia of speech, sometimes associated with oral motor dyspraxia, dysarthria, receptive and expressive language disorder, and hearing loss. Individuals with larger deletions in this region have also been reported to display intellectual disability and autism.
distal xq28 microduplication syndrome (disorder)	A rare hereditary syndromic intellectual disability characterized by cognitive impairment, behavioral and psychiatric problems, recurrent infections, atopic diseases and distinctive facial features in males. Females are clinically asymptomatic or mildly affected presenting mild learning difficulties and facial dysmorphism.
distal monosomy 7p	Una monosomía autosómica parcial caracterizada por retraso del desarrollo y discapacidad intelectual, anomalías digitales, cardiopatías congénitas y anomalías urogenitales y características craneofaciales específicas que frecuentemente incluyen craneosinostosis.
neurofibromatosis type 1 microdeletion syndrome	17q11 microdeletion syndrome is a rare severe form of neurofibromatosis type 1 characterized by mild facial dysmorphism, developmental delay, intellectual disability, increased risk of malignancies, and a large number of neurofibromas.
3p25.3 microdeletion syndrome	3p25.3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterised by intellectual disability, epilepsy or EEG abnormalities, poor speech, ataxia, and stereotypic hand movements.
developmental disorder	Disorders in which there is a delay in development based on that expected for a given age level or stage of development. These impairments or disabilities originate before age 18, may be expected to continue indefinitely, and constitute a substantial impairment. Biological and nonbiological factors are involved in these disorders. (From American Psychiatric Glossary, 6th ed)
disorders, congenital	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
congenital malformation syndromes	A syndrome characterized by the presence of congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or system.
amniotic band constriction	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
deformity due to amniotic band	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
long, slender fingers	An abnormal bone development that is characterized by extra long and slender hands and fingers, such that the clenched thumb extends beyond the ulnar side of the hand. Arachnodactyly can include feet and toes. Arachnodactyly has been associated with several gene mutations and syndromes.
amc-arthrogryposis multiplex congenita	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
ectromelia	Gross hypo- or aplasia of one or more long bones of one or more limbs. The concept includes amelia, hemimelia, phocomelia, and sirenomelia.
congenital foot deformity	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
funnel chest	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
hemimelia	A congenital malformation characterized by the partial or total absence of the distal half of a limb.
congenital pectus carinatum	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
brachydactyly	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
dolichocephaly	An abnormality of skull shape characterized by a increased anterior-posterior diameter, i.e., an increased antero-posterior dimension of the skull. Cephalic index less than 76%. Alternatively, an apparently increased antero-posterior length of the head compared to width. Often due to premature closure of the sagittal suture. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125436]
pili torti	Pili (from Latin pilus, hair) torti (from Latin tortus, twisted) refers to short and brittle hairs that appear flattened and twisted when viewed through a microscope. [HPO:probinson]
robinow-silverman-smith syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive or dominant inherited disorder. The autosomal recessive form is caused by mutations in the ROR2 gene. There is no causative mutation identified for the autosomal dominant form. It is manifested with short limbs, abnormal facial features, underdeveloped genitalia, and wedge-shaped vertebrae.
thoracic-pelvic-phalangeal dystrophy	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by a narrow thorax, micromelia, and respiratory disturbances which may lead to asphyxiation. It may be associated with bilateral microcystic renal disease which may lead to renal failure.
camptodactyly with fibrous tissue hyperplasia and skeletal dysplasia syndrome	An extremely rare chondrodysplastic malformation syndrome with the combination of arachnodactyly, becoming evident at around the age of 10, camptodactyly and scoliosis. A mild facial dysmorphism including a broad nose and flaring nostrils and a mild intellectual disability were also noted. The syndrome has been described once in 3 siblings and is suspected to follow autosomal recessive transmission. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1972.
congenital hip deformity nos	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
chondrodysplasia punctata, rhizomelic form	An autosomal recessive form of CHONDRODYSPLASIA PUNCTATA characterized by defective plasmalogen biosynthesis and impaired peroxisomes. Patients have shortened proximal limbs and severely disturbed endochondral bone formation. The metabolic defects associated with the impaired peroxisomes are present only in the rhizomelic form of chondrodysplasia punctata. (From Scriver et al, Metabolic Basis of Inherited Disease, 6th ed, p1497)
flattened cornea	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
megalocornea	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
deficient perineum (finding)	Shortened distance between anus and genital tubercle. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
campylodactyly	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
increased anogenital distance	An indication that the anogenital distance is greater than the norm.
brachycephaly, deafness, cataract, intellectual disability syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor delay, brachycephaly with flat face, small nose, microstomia, cleft palate, cataract, hearing loss, hypoplastic scrotum and digital anomalies. Less than 10 patients have been described in the literature so far. Although the majority of reported cases were sporadic, the syndrome has been reported in one pair of siblings (a brother and sister) with an apparently autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.
masa syndrome (disorder)	A mild to severe congenital X-linked developmental disorder with hydrocephalus of varying degrees of severity, intellectual deficit, spasticity of the legs, and adducted thumbs. Primarily affects males. Affected males have varying degrees of hydrocephalus ranging from subclinical to severe. Intellectual deficit ranges from mild to severe. Adducted thumbs are a characteristic feature of the syndrome, present in about 50% of cases. Caused by mutations in the L1CAM gene (Xq28) encoding the L1 cell adhesion molecule that is expressed mainly in the developing nervous system. Inherited in an X-linked manner.
receding jaw	A malocclusion in which maxillary incisor and canine teeth project over the mandibular teeth excessively. The overlap is measured perpendicular to the occlusal plane and is also called vertical overlap. When the overlap is measured parallel to the occlusal plane it is referred to as overjet.
cloverleaf skull with multiple congenital anomalies syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of cloverleaf skull, limb anomalies, facial dysmorphism and multiple congenital anomalies. It has been described in three siblings from one family. Dysmorphic features include protruding forehead, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, wide anterior fontanelle and short philtrum, down turning mouth, micrognathia and low-set ears. The limbs show rhizomelic shortening. Additional malformations are not constant: omphalocele, bilateral microphthalmia, cataract, narrow chest, ambiguous genitalia, cardiac ventricular septal defect and agenesis of the corpus callosum. The condition seems to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor.
costocoracoid ligament, congenitally short	A rare anomaly with characteristics of fixation of the scapula to the first rib, resulting in a cosmetic deformity with rounding of the shoulders and loss of the anterior clavicular contour. It has been described only once in several members of a single family from Canada. The abnormality resulted in a strong pectoral girdle with lack of mobility. Movements requiring rotation or retraction of the scapula were limited, but this does not normally interfere with daily activities.
lmps	A rare variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by severe athrogryposis, pterygium, akinesia and often hydrops fetalis and cystic hygroma. This variant is fatal, usually during the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
fibular aplasia, tibial campomelia, and oligosyndactyly syndrome	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation syndrome with characteristics of unilateral or bilateral fibular aplasia/hypoplasia, tibial campomelia, and lower limb oligo-syndactyly involving the lateral rays. Upper limb oligo-syndactyly and cleft lip/palate may also be associated.
hydrocephalus, tall stature, joint laxity, and kyphoscoliosis	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in two sisters and with the presence of hydrocephalus (onset in infancy), tall stature, joint laxity, and thoracolumbar kyphosis. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1989.
lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia (disorder)	Lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia is an extremely rare polymalformative syndrome. It was described only once, in 1975, in 3 affected males in a sibship of 13, from second-cousin parents. Patients were all of low birth weight, had microretrognathia, microstomia, and microglossia, hypoplasia of the radius and ulna with radial deviation of the hands, simian creases and hypoplasia of fingers I and V, hypoplasia of the fibula and tibia with talipes and wide space between toes I and II, and severe malformation of the left heart which may have been responsible for death of all 3 in the first week or so of life.
heart defect and limb shortening syndrome (disorder)	Heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia (including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs). It has been described only once in the literature, in two male siblings from Kuwaiti first cousins. The clinical and radiological features of these patients were reported as a distinct cardio-skeletal syndrome.
camptodactyly syndrome, guadalajara type i	A rare syndrome consisting of growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, camptodactyly and skeletal anomalies. To date only eight cases have been reported in the literature. Dysmorphic features include flat face, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, small downturned mouth, small ears with attached lobule and abnormal dental eruption and occlusion. Some patients had psychomotor development delayed. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
campomelia cumming type	The association of limb defects and multivisceral anomalies. The syndrome has been reported in eight infants from four different families. Skeletal features include tetramelic campomelia and short long bones. Extraskeletal manifestations may include cervical lymphocele, generalized hydrops, polycystic kidneys, pancreas and liver, fibrotic liver or pancreas, polysplenia, heterotaxia, hypoplastic lung, short bowel. All newborns reported so far were either stillborn or died shortly after birth.
rodriguez lethal acrofacial dysostosis syndrome	A multiple malformation syndrome in which mandibulofacial dysostosis and severe limb reduction defects are associated with complex malformations of different organs and systems especially the central nervous system, urogenital tract, heart, and lungs. The mandibulofacial defect causes death by respiratory distress. Limb reduction is severe and includes shoulder and pelvis hypoplasia, phocomelia with humerus hypoplasia, absent radius and ulna, complete absence of long bones of the legs, and various hand anomalies, predominantly preaxial reduction. These infants also show facial dysmorphism and ear anomalies. The condition is a rare with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. The prognosis is poor and this condition leads to death in utero or shortly after birth.
split hand and split foot with mandibular hypoplasia syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of limb deficiencies and renal anomalies that include split hand-split foot malformation, renal agenesis, polycystic kidneys, uterine anomalies and severe mandibular hypoplasia.
camptobrachydactyly (disorder)	An extremely rare brachydactyly syndrome with characteristics of short broad hands and feet with brachydactyly associated with congenital flexion contractures of the proximal and/or distal interphalangeal joints of the fingers, as well as syndactyly of feet. Polydactyly, septate vagina and urinary incontinence were also occasionally reported. Camptobrachydactyly has been described in 18 members of 1 family, suggesting an autosomal dominant inheritance. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1972.
limb-mammary syndrome	A rare type of ectodermal dysplasia. Less than 50 cases have been described in the literature so far. Clinically, the syndrome has characteristics of severe hand and/or foot anomalies, and hypoplasia/aplasia of the mammary gland and nipple. Clinical expression is extremely variable. Individuals with mild LMS have isolated athelia. All three major categories of limb defects (i.e., deficiencies, duplications and fusion/separation defects), as well as several combinations of these anomalies, were observed. Variation in the severity of the limb defects may be observed, not only between individuals but also between the left and right hand/foot of one individual. Skin and hair are spared. An autosomal dominant disease caused by loss-of-function mutations in exon 13 and 14 of the TP63 gene found on the subtelomeric region of chromosome 3 (3q27).
sgfld (splenogonadal fusion limb defect syndrome) syndrome	A rare dysostosis syndrome with characteristics of abnormal fusion of the spleen with the gonad (or more rarely with remnants of the mesonephros), limb abnormalities (consisting of amelia or severe reduction defects leading to upper and/or lower rudimentary limbs) and orofacial abnormalities such as cleft palate, bifid uvula, microglossia and mandibular hypoplasia. It may also be associated with other malformations such as cryptorchidism, anal stenosis/atresia, hypoplastic lungs and cardiac malformations.
radio-renal syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of variable upper limb reduction defects and renal anomalies. Patients typically present absence/hypoplasia of digits, radii and/or ulnae, short stature and mild external ear malformation, as well as kidney agenesis or ectopia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1983.
mental retardation, x-linked, with craniofacial dysmorphism	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, brachycephaly, plagiocephaly, prominent forehead and coarse facial features. It has been described in two males from one family. Two females belonging to the same family displayed moderate intellectual deficit but no craniofacial dysmorphism.
guadalajara camptodactyly syndrome type 2	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of distinctive intrauterine growth retardation, skeletal dysplasia with multiple malformations including camptodactyly of all fingers, bilateral hallux valgus, short second, fourth and fifth toes, hypoplastic patella, microcephaly, low-set ears, short neck, cuboid-shaped vertebral bodies, pectus excavatum, hip dislocation, and hypoplastic pubic region and genitalia. Described in two sisters there have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
10q24 microduplication syndrome	Syndrome with a combination of symmetric severe distal limb reduction deficiencies affecting all four limbs (oligodactyly), microretrognathia, and microstomia with or without cleft palate. It has been reported in four patients; two of them were siblings and had moderate intellectual deficiency. Two non-related subjects also had severe myopia, bilateral conductive hearing loss and a renal change, referred to as oligomeganephronia, or renal hypoplasia. A 10q24 duplication or triplication was detected in all these patients, similar to the duplication detected in an isolated form of split hand foot malformation.
intellectual disability with cataract and kyphosis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, kyphosis with onset in childhood and cataract with onset in late adolescence. The syndrome has been described in three siblings. The two brothers also presented with iris coloboma. Other clinical findings include contractures of large joints, bulbous nose with broad nasal bridge, and thick lips. The disease is linked to the pericentromeric region of chromosome 4. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
congenital microgastria with limb reduction defect syndrome	Syndrome with the association of microgastria and limb reduction defect. Most of the 50 cases of congenital microgastria reported in the literature are associated with other multiple congenital anomalies. Isolated congenital microgastria is an extremely rare condition; only three cases have been reported in the literature so far. The clinical manifestations of congenital microgastria depend on the stage at which the embryologic development of the stomach is arrested. The microgastria-limb reduction association is believed to arise as a result of aberrant mesodermal development in the fourth or fifth week of embryonic life. The outcome for most of the reported patients with severe microgastria was either death or extreme malnutrition.
ehlers-danlos syndrome kyphoscoliotic and deafness type	A form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) with characteristics of severe kyphoscoliosis in conjunction with sensorineural hearing impairment and normal urinary pyridinoline excretion.
camptodactyly and tall stature with scoliosis and hearing loss syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of camptodactyly, tall stature, scoliosis, and hearing loss (CATSHL). It has been described in around 30 individuals from seven generations of the same family. The syndrome is caused by a missense mutation in the FGFR3 gene, leading to a partial loss of function of the encoded protein, which is a negative regulator of bone growth.
familial streblodactyly with amino-aciduria	A congenital malformation syndrome with the association of a permanent camptodactyly of the fingers and the over excretion of taurine in the urine. Camptodactyly mainly affects the little finger, although any finger may be involved. The disease has been described in 17 affected patients from 4 unrelated families. An autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1966.
clinodactyly	An angulation of a digit at an interphalangeal joint in the plane of the palm (finger) or sole (toe). [PMID:16252026]
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, short limb, abnormal calcification syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia disorder with characteristics of disproportionate short stature with shortening of upper and lower limbs, short and broad fingers with short hands, narrowed chest with rib abnormalities and pectus excavatum, abnormal chondral calcifications (including larynx, trachea and costal cartilages) and facial dysmorphism (frontal bossing, hypertelorism, prominent eyes, short flat nose, wide nostrils, high-arched palate, long philtrum). Platyspondyly (especially of cervical spine) and abnormal epiphyses and metaphyses are observed on radiography. Atlantoaxial instability causing spinal compression and recurrent respiratory disease are potential complications that may be lethal.
torticollis, keloids, cryptorchidism, renal dysplasia syndrome	An extremely rare developmental defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome with congenital muscular torticollis associated with skin anomalies (such as multiple keloids, pigmented nevi, epithelioma), urogenital malformations (including cryptorchidism and hypospadias) and renal dysplasia (for example chronic pyelonephritis, renal atrophy). Additional reported features include varicose veins, intellectual disability and musculoskeletal anomalies.
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia, bowed forearms, facial dysmorphism syndrome	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia disorder with characteristics of short stature, hyperlordosis, protuberant abdomen, mild bilateral genu varum, bowed and shortened forearms with limited elbow extension and discrete facial dysmorphism (prominent forehead, hypertelorism, flat nasal bridge). Radiographically moderate platyspondyly, including posterior wedging with anterior bullet-shaped vertebral bodies, with minimal metaphyseal abnormalities are observed.
severe microbrachycephaly, intellectual disability, athetoid cerebral palsy syndrome	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial dysmorphism including microbrachycephaly, sloping forehead, micro/anophthalmia, large ears, prominent nasal root, mild micrognathia and cleft palate. The syndrome is associated with cerebral palsy with choreoathetoid movements, intellectual disability, dextrocardia and longitudinal folding of plantae pedis. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
radial deficiency, tibial hypoplasia syndrome	A rare genetic dysostosis syndrome with combined reduction defects of upper and lower limbs and characteristics of bilateral radial aplasia, absent thumbs and bilateral tibial hypo/aplasia. Additional bone anomalies (including partial toe hypo/aplasia, short fibula and clubhand) may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1996.
csbs	A rare intestinal disorder of neonates of unknown aetiology. Patients are born with a short small bowel (less than 75 cm in length) that compromises proper intestinal absorption and leads chronic diarrhoea, vomiting and failure to thrive.
disease congenital	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
congenital anomaly of musculoskeletal system, nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
constriction ring syndrome (disorder)	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
choanal atresias	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal atresia nos	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
imperforate nares	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
atresia; choana	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choana; atresia	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
atresias, choanal	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
cleidocranial digital dysostosis	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
congenital club foot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
talipes equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
talipes equinovarus (physical finding)	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
clubfoot, congenital, with or without deficiency of long bones and/or mirror-image polydactyly	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congen foot deformities	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
feet deformities	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital deformity of foot nos	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
foot deformity, congenital	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital deformities of feet	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital deformity of foot	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
feet deformities nos	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital pectus excavatum	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
excavatum; pectus	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
pectus excavatum	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
pectus recurvatum	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
congenital talipes valgus	Outward turning of the heel, resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
talipes valgus, congenital	Outward turning of the heel, resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
pigeon-chested	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
congenital chicken breast	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
pigeon breast or chest; congenital	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
pectus carinatum	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
cvt	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
talus, congenital vertical	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
rocker bottom foot	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
foot, rocker-bottom	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
talus, vertical	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
clavicle; pseudarthrosis	The two portions of the clavicle (corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle) are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum, and a synovial membrane develops, resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically. Congenital pseudarthrosis of the clavicle generally presents as a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22295044]
congenital hip deformity	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
hip; anomaly	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
congenital deformity of hip	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
congenital deformity of hip, unspecified	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
equinovalgus; talipes	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
talipes equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
congenital talipes equinovalgus (disorder)	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
congenital talipes calcaneovarus	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
talipes calcaneovarus	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
talipes calcaneovarus (disorder)	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital metatarsus primus varus	Angulation of the first metatarsal bone towards the midline. This is associated with angulation of the phalanges of the same toe away from the midline (HALLUX VALGUS).
metatarsus primus varus, congenital	Angulation of the first metatarsal bone towards the midline. This is associated with angulation of the phalanges of the same toe away from the midline (HALLUX VALGUS).
congenital metatarsus (primus) varus	Angulation of the first metatarsal bone towards the midline. This is associated with angulation of the phalanges of the same toe away from the midline (HALLUX VALGUS).
metatarsus primus varus	Angulation of the first metatarsal bone towards the midline. This is associated with angulation of the phalanges of the same toe away from the midline (HALLUX VALGUS).
bifid patella (disorder)	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformations of nose (diagnosis)	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
nasal abnormality	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity of nose, nos	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformations of nose	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nose deformity, unspecified	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nose malformation nos	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformation of nose, nos	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity of nose (disorder)	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformation of nose, unspecified	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
nose; anomaly	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
lop ear (physical finding)	Anterior and inferior folding of the upper portion of the ear that obliterates triangular fossa and scapha. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
bat ear	Anterior and inferior folding of the upper portion of the ear that obliterates triangular fossa and scapha. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
congenital bat ear	Anterior and inferior folding of the upper portion of the ear that obliterates triangular fossa and scapha. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
keratoglobus (disorder)	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
underdeveloped clavicle	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
simple ears	The pinna has fewer folds and grooves than usual. [PMID:15523657]
simple ear	The pinna has fewer folds and grooves than usual. [PMID:15523657]
thoracoschisis	A congenital fissure of the thoracic wall.
congenital malformation of nose single naris	The presence of only a single nostril. [PMID:19152422]
congenital anomalies of respiratory system rhinocephaly	A congenital anatomic defect characterised by the presence of a proboscis-like nose located above the eyes, which are partially or completely fused.
rhinocephaly (disorder)	A congenital anatomic defect characterised by the presence of a proboscis-like nose located above the eyes, which are partially or completely fused.
congenital pes cavus	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
pes cavus	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
contracted foot	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
fine-lubinsky syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor delay, brachycephaly with flat face, small nose, microstomia, cleft palate, cataract, hearing loss, hypoplastic scrotum and digital anomalies. Less than 10 patients have been described in the literature so far. Although the majority of reported cases were sporadic, the syndrome has been reported in one pair of siblings (a brother and sister) with an apparently autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.
amniotic stricture	Annular constrictions around the digits, limbs, or trunk, occurring congenitally (sometimes causing intrauterine autoamputation) and also associated with a wide variety of disorders. Constrictive amniotic bands are the result of primary amniotic rupture, which can lead to entanglement of fetal tissue (especially limbs) in fibrous amniotic strands. [HPO:probinson]
stahl ear	The presence of a supernumerary, i.e. third, crus of the helix in the helix, arising at or above the normal bifurcation of the antihelix. [HPO:sdoelken]
vulcan ear (disorder)	The presence of a supernumerary, i.e. third, crus of the helix in the helix, arising at or above the normal bifurcation of the antihelix. [HPO:sdoelken]
stahl's ear	The presence of a supernumerary, i.e. third, crus of the helix in the helix, arising at or above the normal bifurcation of the antihelix. [HPO:sdoelken]
pectus excavatum, macrocephaly, dysplastic nails syndrome (disorder)	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of relative macrocephaly, pectus excavatum, short stature, nail dysplasia, and motor developmental delay (that resolves during childhood). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
zori stalker williams syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of relative macrocephaly, pectus excavatum, short stature, nail dysplasia, and motor developmental delay (that resolves during childhood). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
choanal atresia with radial ray hypoplasia	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
radial ray hypoplasia choanal atresia	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
radial ray hypoplasia with choanal hypoplasia	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
goldblatt viljoen radial ray hypoplasia	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
krauss herman holmes syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of telecanthus, hypertelorism, strabismus, pes cavus and other variable anomalies. It has been described in a father and his son. The son also had hypospadias, bilateral inguinal hernia, clinodactyly and camptodactyly of the fingers. Radiographic findings including flared metaphyses of the long bones and osteopenia.
congenital tubular nose	A rare congenital facial abnormality with manifestation of failed development of the external nose on one side that is replaced by a tubular structure composed of skin and soft tissue usually attached at the inner canthus of the eye. The disorder is therefore often associated with maldevelopment of the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses of the affected side. Also associated with other craniofacial abnormalities such as orbital anomalies and cleft lip/palate.
guízar vázquez sánchez manzano syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of joint laxity, pectus carinatum and facial dysmorphism (mild frontal bossing, a beaked nose with a low nasal bridge, malar hypoplasia, chubby cheeks, a striking philtrum and arched upper lips). It has been described in two siblings. The mode of transmission is unknown.
congenital hip dysplasias	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
ddh	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
congenital dysplasia of the hip	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
severe microbrachycephaly, intellectual disability, athetoid cerebral palsy syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial dysmorphism including microbrachycephaly, sloping forehead, micro/anophthalmia, large ears, prominent nasal root, mild micrognathia and cleft palate. The syndrome is associated with cerebral palsy with choreoathetoid movements, intellectual disability, dextrocardia and longitudinal folding of plantae pedis. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
multiple congenital anomalies nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
ectopic tissue	A mass of histologically normal tissue present in an abnormal location.
volvulus neonatorum	A congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated (twisted). It may result in intestinal obstruction.
neuronal heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
congenital dysplasia, nos	Abnormal tissue formation due to abnormal cellular organization, which may result in a morphologic defect.
congenital joint contractures	One or more flexion contractures (a bent joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively) that are present at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital cleft	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
congenital defective closure, nos	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
congenital vascular anomaly	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
abnorm multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
acs i	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
acs1	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
syndrome, apert	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
amelogenesis imperfecta (diagnosis)	A clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of hereditary conditions characterized by malformed DENTAL ENAMEL, usually involving DENTAL ENAMEL HYPOPLASIA and/or TOOTH HYPOMINERALIZATION.
aplasia; brain	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
congen absence of brain	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
angiomatosis	A condition with multiple tumor-like lesions caused either by congenital or developmental malformations of BLOOD VESSELS, or reactive vascular proliferations, such as in bacillary angiomatosis. Angiomatosis is considered non-neoplastic.
aniridia (physical finding)	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
anophthalmia	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
imperforate anus (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
congenital anal atresia	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
congenital imperforate anus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
coarctation	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
aortic coarctation (disorder)	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
aorta coarctation	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
aortic coarctation	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
supravalvular stenoses, aortic	A pathological constriction occurring in the region above the AORTIC VALVE. It is characterized by restricted outflow from the LEFT VENTRICLE into the AORTA.
septal defect, aorticopulmonary	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
aortic septal defect	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
aorticopulmonary septal defect	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
congenital arteriovenous malformation	Abnormal formation of blood vessels that shunt arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the CAPILLARIES. They usually are crooked, dilated, and with thick vessel walls. A common type is the congenital arteriovenous fistula. The lack of blood flow and oxygen in the capillaries can lead to tissue damage in the affected areas.
arthrogryposis, unspecified (disorder)	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
arthrogryposis	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
multiplex congenita, arthrogryposis	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome	Hereditary disorder consisting of multiple basal cell carcinomas, odontogenic keratocysts, and multiple skeletal defects, e.g., frontal and temporoparietal bossing, bifurcated and splayed ribs, kyphoscoliosis, fusion of vertebrae, and cervicothoracic spina bifida. Genetic transmission is autosomal dominant.
wiedemann beckwith syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
wiedemann-beckwith syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
congenital amaurosis	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital blindness	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital blindness (disorder)	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
blindness congenital	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
branchial cleft cysts	A tumor derived from branchial epithelium or branchial rests. (Dorland, 27th ed)
branchioma	A tumor derived from branchial epithelium or branchial rests. (Dorland, 27th ed)
carriers, genetic	an individual who is heterozygous for a recessive gene and thus does not express the recessive phenotype but can transmit the gene to offspring.
obstruction of the rear opening of the nasal cavity	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal atresia (disorder) [ambiguous]	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal atresia nos (disorder)	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
congenital biliary duct cyst	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
choledochocele	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
duct cyst, bile	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
congenital anomaly of cartilage (diagnosis)	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
cartilage development disorder	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
chondrodystrophy nos	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
chondrodystrophy	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
chromosomal anomalies (diagnosis)	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
congenital chromosomal disease	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosome abnormality disorder	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal anomalies nos	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
abnormal chromosomes	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal deletion nos	Actual loss of portion of a chromosome.
chromosomal deletion	Actual loss of portion of a chromosome.
cheiloschisis	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
harelips	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft palates	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
cleft palate nos	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
cleft palate (disorder)	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
secondary cleft palate	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
clubfoot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital club feet	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
clubfoot - congenital	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
club foot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
foot, talipes equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
clubfoot disorders	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital ocular coloboma	Congenital anomaly in which some of the structures of the eye are absent due to incomplete fusion of the fetal intraocular fissure during gestation.
stones common duct	Žlučové kaménky, které se vyskytují v hlavním žlučovodu (ductus choledochus), ale obvykle vznikají ve žlučníku.
common bile duct stone	Žlučové kaménky, které se vyskytují v hlavním žlučovodu (ductus choledochus), ale obvykle vznikají ve žlučníku.
pulmonary artery anomaly nos (disorder)	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery congenital abnormality	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery anomaly, unspecified (disorder)	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital pulmonary artery anomaly	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery anomalies	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery abnormality	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of pulmonary artery (disorder)	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital pulmonary artery anomaly nos	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary; anomaly, arterial	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of lung artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
meningocele: [cerebral] or [cranial] (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
cranial meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
congenital hepatic fibrosis	A congenital disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It affects the hepatobiliary system and the kidneys. It is characterized by liver fibrosis, portal hypertension, and renal cysts.
spinal meningocele of unspecified site	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
spinal meningocele (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
hearts, triatrial	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
cor; triatriatum	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
crouzon's disease	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
craniofacial dysostosis	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
craniosynostoses	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
craniosynostosis	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
5p- syndromes	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
cats cry syndrome	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
twisted atrioventricular connections	A developmental malformation of the heart characterized by a twisted but not defective atrioventicular connection. The abnormal rotation of the ventricular mass around its long axis results in the crossing of the inflow streams of the two ventricles. Other features include hypoplasia of the TRICUSPID VALVE and RIGHT VENTRICLE.
cryptorchism	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
maldescent; testis	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
undescended testis (disorder) [ambiguous]	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
cryptorchism nos	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
cyst dandy walker	A congenital abnormality of the central nervous system marked by failure of the midline structures of the cerebellum to develop, dilation of the fourth ventricle, and upward displacement of the transverse sinuses, tentorium, and torcula. Clinical features include occipital bossing, progressive head enlargement, bulging of anterior fontanelle, papilledema, ataxia, gait disturbances, nystagmus, and intellectual compromise. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, pp294-5)
dens invaginatus (diagnosis)	Anomaly of the tooth, found chiefly in upper lateral incisors. It is characterized by invagination of the enamel at the incisal edge.
dentigerous cyst of jaw (diagnosis)	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
dentigerous cyst (disorder)	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
follicular cyst of jaw	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
dentigerous odontogenic cyst	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
dysplasias, dentin	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
diastematomyelia (diagnosis)	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
split spinal cord malformation (disorder)	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
digeorge syndrome type 1	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
microdeletion 22q11.2	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
double outlet right ventricle	Incomplete transposition of the great vessels in which both the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY arise from the RIGHT VENTRICLE. The only outlet of the LEFT VENTRICLE is a large ventricular septal defect (VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS or VSD). The various subtypes are classified by the location of the septal defect, such as subaortic, subpulmonary, or noncommitted.
trisomy 21	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
trisomy 21 syndrome	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
down's syndrome	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
anomalies, isolated duane	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
retraction syndromes, ocular	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
duchenne muscular dystrophy	An X-linked recessive muscle disease caused by an inability to synthesize DYSTROPHIN, which is involved with maintaining the integrity of the sarcolemma. Muscle fibers undergo a process that features degeneration and regeneration. Clinical manifestations include proximal weakness in the first few years of life, pseudohypertrophy, cardiomyopathy (see MYOCARDIAL DISEASES), and an increased incidence of impaired mentation. Becker muscular dystrophy is a closely related condition featuring a later onset of disease (usually adolescence) and a slowly progressive course. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1415)
arteriosus ductus patent	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
persistent ductus arteriosus	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
patent ductus arteriosus	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
nevus syndrome, dysplastic	Clinically atypical nevi (usually exceeding 5 mm in diameter and having variable pigmentation and ill defined borders) with an increased risk for development of non-familial cutaneous malignant melanoma. Biopsies show melanocytic dysplasia. Nevi are clinically and histologically identical to the precursor lesions for melanoma in the B-K mole syndrome. (Stedman, 25th ed)
ebstein's anomaly	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
ebstein; anomaly	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
ebstein anomaly	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
ebstein malformation	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
ebstein's anomaly of tricuspid valve	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
dysplasia, ectodermal	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectodermal dysplasia (diagnosis)	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
congen ectodermal defect	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectromelia of unspecified limb (disorder)	Gross hypo- or aplasia of one or more long bones of one or more limbs. The concept includes amelia, hemimelia, phocomelia, and sirenomelia.
ectromelia (disorder)	Gross hypo- or aplasia of one or more long bones of one or more limbs. The concept includes amelia, hemimelia, phocomelia, and sirenomelia.
eisenmenger	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmengers complex	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmenger's syndrome	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmenger's physiology	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmenger defect	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
atrioventricular canal	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
endocard cushion def nos	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
lutz-lewandowsky disease	An autosomal recessive trait with impaired cell-mediated immunity. About 15 human papillomaviruses are implicated in associated infection, four of which lead to skin neoplasms. The disease begins in childhood with red papules and later spreads over the body as gray or yellow scales.
epidermodysplasia verruciformis (disorder)	An autosomal recessive trait with impaired cell-mediated immunity. About 15 human papillomaviruses are implicated in associated infection, four of which lead to skin neoplasms. The disease begins in childhood with red papules and later spreads over the body as gray or yellow scales.
bullosa; epidermolysis	Group of genetically determined disorders characterized by the blistering of skin and mucosae. There are four major forms: acquired, simple, junctional, and dystrophic. Each of the latter three has several varieties.
(epispadias) or (anaspadias)	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is above its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the top or the side of the PENIS, but the urethra can also be open the entire length of the penis. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is often between the CLITORIS and the labia, or in the ABDOMEN.
anaspadias	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is above its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the top or the side of the PENIS, but the urethra can also be open the entire length of the penis. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is often between the CLITORIS and the labia, or in the ABDOMEN.
epispadias	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is above its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the top or the side of the PENIS, but the urethra can also be open the entire length of the penis. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is often between the CLITORIS and the labia, or in the ABDOMEN.
esophagus atresia	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
anomaly; eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital eye deformity nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
eye abnormalities	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital anomaly;eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital malformation of eye, unspecified	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital anolmaly of the globe	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
goltz syndrome	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
goltz-gorlin syndrome	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
follicular eruption of cyst of jaw	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
eruption cyst of jaw	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
cyst; eruption	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
eruption cyst	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
congenital deformity of feet, unspecified	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
deformity; foot, congenital	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
persistent; foramen ovale	A condition in which the FORAMEN OVALE in the ATRIAL SEPTUM fails to close shortly after birth. This results in abnormal communications between the two upper chambers of the heart. An isolated patent ovale foramen without other structural heart defects is usually of no hemodynamic significance.
martin-bell syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
cobbler's chest -retired-	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
pectus; excavatum	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
cobbler's chest	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
trichterbrust	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
pectus excavatum (diagnosis)	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
pectus excavatum (disorder)	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
disorders excavatum pectus	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
congenital; funnel chest	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
funnel chest; congenital	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
funnel breast	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
congenital funnel chest	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
gardners syndrome	A variant of ADENOMATOUS POLYPOSIS COLI caused by mutation in the APC gene (GENES, APC) on CHROMOSOME 5. It is characterized by not only the presence of multiple colonic polyposis but also extracolonic ADENOMATOUS POLYPS in the UPPER GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT; the EYE; the SKIN; the SKULL; and the FACIAL BONES; as well as malignancy in organs other than the GI tract.
glucose-6-phosphatase deficiencies	An autosomal recessive disease in which gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase is absent, resulting in hypoglycemia due to lack of glucose production. Accumulation of glycogen in liver and kidney leads to organomegaly, particularly massive hepatomegaly. Increased concentrations of lactic acid and hyperlipidemia appear in the plasma. Clinical gout often appears in early childhood.
von gierke's disease	An autosomal recessive disease in which gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase is absent, resulting in hypoglycemia due to lack of glucose production. Accumulation of glycogen in liver and kidney leads to organomegaly, particularly massive hepatomegaly. Increased concentrations of lactic acid and hyperlipidemia appear in the plasma. Clinical gout often appears in early childhood.
hepatic phosphorylase deficiency	A hepatic GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE in which there is an apparent deficiency of hepatic phosphorylase (GLYCOGEN PHOSPHORYLASE, LIVER FORM) activity.
hepatic glycogen phosphorylase kinase deficiency	An x-linked recessive hepatic glycogen storage disease resulting from lack of expression of phosphorylase-b-kinase activity. Symptoms are relatively mild; hepatomegaly, increased liver glycogen, and decreased leukocyte phosphorylase are present. Liver shrinkage occurs in response to glucagon.
mosaicism 45,x/46,xy	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
mixed gonadal dysgenesis	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
45,x/46,xy mixed gonadal dysgenesis	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
gonadal dysgenesis, mixed	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
mosaicism 45, x; 46, xy	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
45, x/46, xy mosaicism	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
45,x/46,xy disorder of sex development	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
naevoid hypertrichosis	A usually benign congenital skin growth that is often pigmented and sometimes develop coarse surface hair. There is a lifetime risk of transformation to malignant melanoma which varies depending on the size of the lesion.
cowden syndrome	A hereditary disease characterized by multiple ectodermal, mesodermal, and endodermal nevoid and neoplastic anomalies. Facial trichilemmomas and papillomatous papules of the oral mucosa are the most characteristic lesions. Individuals with this syndrome have a high risk of BREAST CANCER; THYROID CANCER; and ENDOMETRIAL CANCER. This syndrome is associated with mutations in the gene for PTEN PHOSPHATASE.
hand deformities congen	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
hand malformation	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
abnorm heart	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
heart abnormality	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
abnormality of the heart	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
heart; anomaly, septum	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
cardiac septal defect	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
congenital heart septum defect	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
congenital malformations of cardiac septa	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
cardiac septal defect nos	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
congenital septal defects	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
umbilical hernia nos	Protrusion of the abdominal cavity contents through the abdominal wall at the umbilicus.
von hippel-lindau syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
von hippel-lindau syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
lindau's disease	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
lindaus dis	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
macrocolon (finding)	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hirschsprungs disease	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hirschsprung's disease (disorder)	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
congenital megacolon	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
teeth, hutchinson's	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
hydranencephaly	A congenital condition where the greater portions of the cerebral hemispheres and CORPUS STRIATUM are replaced by CSF and glial tissue. The meninges and the skull are well formed, which is consistent with earlier normal embryogenesis of the telencephalon. Bilateral occlusions of the internal carotid arteries in utero is a potential mechanism. Clinical features include intact brainstem reflexes without evidence of higher cortical activity. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p307)
congenital hydrocephalus	Hydrocephalus that is present at birth.
congenital; hydrocephalus	Hydrocephalus that is present at birth.
hydrocephalus congenital	Hydrocephalus that is present at birth.
hypertelorism of orbit	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
eyes widely set	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
widely-spaced eyes	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
hypertelorism (physical finding)	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
widely spaced eyes	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
ocular hypertelorism	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
orbital separation excessive	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
ichthyosis congenita	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
congenital ichthyosis, unspecified	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
newborn lamellar exfoliation	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
newborn lamellar exfoliations	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
ichthyosis, nos	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
ichthyosis congenital	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
incontinentia pigmenti	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
ip - incontinentia pigmenti	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
incontinentia pigmenti, type i, formerly	A large brown, blue, or gray hamartoma of dermal melanocytes, usually on the shoulder and upper arm that is most commonly found in Asian populations and in females. It is sometimes associated with sensory changes in the involved skin area, but very rarely becomes cancerous.
dubin-johnson syndrome	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
jervell and lange-nielson syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell and lange-nielson syndrome (disorder)	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell and lange-nielsen syndrome (disorder)	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell and lange-nielson syndrome (finding)	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell and lange-nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell lange nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
lange-nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
cardio-auditory syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
syndrome, surdo-cardiac	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
hereditary diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma (disorder)	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
syndrome, unna-thost	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
thost-unna syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
darier's disease	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
keratitis follicularis	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
keratosis palmaris et plantaris (disorder)	Abnormal thickening of the skin localized to the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
cacchi-ricci syndrome	En icke ärftlig njursjukdom som kännetecknas av en onormal vidgning av samlingsrören i njurmärgen och njurpapillerna. Samlingsrören innehåller cystor eller utbuktningar fyllda med en geléartad substans eller små njurstenar, vilket kan leda till infektioner eller obstruktion. Svampnjure måste särskiljas från medfödd eller ärftlig polycystnjure.
klinefelter's syndrome, unspecified	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
primary hypogonadism	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
klinefelter's syndrome nos	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
xxy trisomy	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
dystrophia brevicollis congen	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
syndrome, angio-osteohypertrophy	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
angioosteohypertrophy syndrome	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type ii	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
white matter necrosis	Degeneration of white matter adjacent to the CEREBRAL VENTRICLES following cerebral hypoxia or BRAIN ISCHEMIA in neonates. The condition primarily affects white matter in the perfusion zone between superficial and deep branches of the MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. Clinical manifestations include VISION DISORDERS; CEREBRAL PALSY; PARAPLEGIA; SEIZURES; and cognitive disorders. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1021; Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1997, Ch4, pp30-1)
leukomalacia, periventricular	Degeneration of white matter adjacent to the CEREBRAL VENTRICLES following cerebral hypoxia or BRAIN ISCHEMIA in neonates. The condition primarily affects white matter in the perfusion zone between superficial and deep branches of the MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. Clinical manifestations include VISION DISORDERS; CEREBRAL PALSY; PARAPLEGIA; SEIZURES; and cognitive disorders. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1021; Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1997, Ch4, pp30-1)
laevocardia	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
isolated levocardia	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
levocardia, nos	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
heart predominantly in left hemithorax	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
lutembacher syndrome	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
atrial septal defect and mitral stenosis	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
lutembacher's anomaly (disorder)	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
lutembacher's syndrome	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
maffucci's anomalad	A rare non-inherited disorder primarily affecting the skin and skeletal system. It is classified as a mesodermal dysplasia. Clinical signs appear within the first decade and are characterized by multiple soft tissue hemiangiomas and enchondromas leading to skeletal deformities. Clinical course is progressive with variable development of associated malignancies.
short-rib syndrome, type ii	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
polydactyly with neonatal chondrodystrophy, type ii	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
ocular melanocytosis	A congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate-gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera . The conjunctiva are spared. []
melanosis oculi (disorder)	A congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate-gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera . The conjunctiva are spared. []
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b	Similar to MEN2A, it is also caused by mutations of the MEN2 gene, also known as the RET proto-oncogene. Its clinical symptoms include medullary carcinoma (CARCINOMA, MEDULLARY) of THYROID GLAND and PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA of ADRENAL MEDULLA (50%). Unlike MEN2a, MEN2b does not involve PARATHYROID NEOPLASMS. It can be distinguished from MEN2A by its neural abnormalities such as mucosal NEUROMAS on EYELIDS; LIP; and TONGUE, and ganglioneuromatosis of GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT leading to MEGACOLON. It is an autosomal dominant inherited disease.
myelomeningocele	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
hydromeningomyelocele (disorder)	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
meningomyelocele	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
hydromeningomyelocele	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
mesenteric cysts	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
cyst; mesentery	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
cyst of mesentery	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
mesenteric cyst	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
hypoglossia	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
decreased size of tongue	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
micrognathism	Abnormally small jaw.
micrognathia, congenital	Abnormally small jaw.
mandibular hypoplasia	Abnormally small jaw.
congenital mandibular hypoplasia	Abnormally small jaw.
decreased size of lower jaw	Abnormally small jaw.
microstomia	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
small mouth	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
narrow mouth	A congenital defect in which the mouth is unusually small. (Dorland, 27th ed)
mitral regurgitation	Backflow of blood from the LEFT VENTRICLE into the LEFT ATRIUM due to imperfect closure of the MITRAL VALVE. This can lead to mitral valve regurgitation.
mouth--abnormalities	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
mouth; anomaly	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital mouth malformation nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital malformations of mouth (diagnosis)	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital anomaly of mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
mouth; deformity, congenital	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
abnormality of the mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
congenital malformation of mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
mouth abnormality	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
neonatal tooth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
neonatal teeth	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
hyperinsulinaemia due to nesidioblastosis	A sporadic or inherited disorder characterized by the focal or diffuse proliferation of the cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. It results in hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia.
nesidioblastosis of pancreas	A sporadic or inherited disorder characterized by the focal or diffuse proliferation of the cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. It results in hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia.
neural tube defect	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
defect, neural tube	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neurenteric cyst	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neurenteric cyst (disorder)	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neuroenteric cyst	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neuroenteric cysts	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neurofibromatosis 1 (disorder)	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
recklinghausen's neurofibromatosis	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
recklinghausen disease, nerve	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
nf1	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
neurofibromatosis, type i	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
type 1 neurofibromatosis	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
neurofibromatosis, type 2 (acoustic neurofibromatosis)	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
neurofibromatosis a 02	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
neurofibromatosis type ii	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
neurofibromatosis type 2	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
type ii neurofibromatoses	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
congenital oculodermal melanocytosis	A macular lesion on the side of the FACE, involving the CONJUNCTIVA and EYELIDS, as well as the adjacent facial skin, SCLERA; OCULOMOTOR MUSCLES; and PERIOSTEUM. Histological features vary from those of a MONGOLIAN SPOT to those of a BLUE NEVUS.
nevus of ota	A macular lesion on the side of the FACE, involving the CONJUNCTIVA and EYELIDS, as well as the adjacent facial skin, SCLERA; OCULOMOTOR MUSCLES; and PERIOSTEUM. Histological features vary from those of a MONGOLIAN SPOT to those of a BLUE NEVUS.
pachydermoperiostosis of nail	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
clubbed nail pachydermoperiostosis	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
touraine solente gole syndrome	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
osteoarthropathy, primary hypertrophic	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
pachydermoperiostosis syndrome	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, primary, autosomal recessive	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
pachydermoperiostosis	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, primary	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
pachydermoperiostosis syndrome (disorder)	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
osteopetrosis	Excessive formation of dense trabecular bone leading to pathological fractures; OSTEITIS; SPLENOMEGALY with infarct; ANEMIA; and extramedullary hemopoiesis (HEMATOPOIESIS, EXTRAMEDULLARY).
osteopetrosis, nos	Excessive formation of dense trabecular bone leading to pathological fractures; OSTEITIS; SPLENOMEGALY with infarct; ANEMIA; and extramedullary hemopoiesis (HEMATOPOIESIS, EXTRAMEDULLARY).
high skull	Tvarová varianta brachycefalu, věžovitý tvar hlavy způsobený předčasnou synostózou příčných švů s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Hlava dělá dojem malého objemu, ale s nápadnou výškou, čelo je příkré a vysoké, orbity jsou úzké, vysoké a mělké. Oči prominují. Rozlišují se tři dědičné klinické varianty. 1. o. spojený s kraniostenózou a s atrofií nn. optici 2. o. spojený s familiárním hemolytickým ikterem 3. akrocefalická syndaktylie (Apertův syndrom).(cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
acrocephaly	Tvarová varianta brachycefalu, věžovitý tvar hlavy způsobený předčasnou synostózou příčných švů s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Hlava dělá dojem malého objemu, ale s nápadnou výškou, čelo je příkré a vysoké, orbity jsou úzké, vysoké a mělké. Oči prominují. Rozlišují se tři dědičné klinické varianty. 1. o. spojený s kraniostenózou a s atrofií nn. optici 2. o. spojený s familiárním hemolytickým ikterem 3. akrocefalická syndaktylie (Apertův syndrom).(cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
papillon-lefevre syndrome (diagnosis)	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
papillon-lefèvre syndrome (disorder)	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
palmoplantar periodontopathies, keratosis	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
papillon lefevre syndrome	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
keratosis palmoplantaris with periodontopathia	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
papillon lefevre disease	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
embryonic fimbrial cyst (disorder)	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
dent root cyst	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
paradental cyst (disorder)	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
dental root; cyst	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
acd mpv	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
fetal; circulation	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
alveolar capillary dysplasia with misalignment of pulmonary veins	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
ostium primum atrial septal defect	A congenital defect in the atrial septum at the level of the atrioventricular valves, resulting in abnormalities in the mitral and/or tricuspid valve; this defect is most commonly seen in those with Trisomy 21.
hereditary intestinal polyposis syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
hamartomatous intestinal polyposis	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
peutz-jeghers syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
peutz-jegher syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
basilar impressions	A developmental deformity of the occipital bone and upper end of the cervical spine, in which the latter appears to have pushed the floor of the occipital bone upward. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital poikiloderma	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
polyploidy syndrome	The chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of CHROMOSOMES; includes triploidy (symbol: 3N), tetraploidy (symbol: 4N), etc.
polyploidy (morphologic abnormality)	The chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of CHROMOSOMES; includes triploidy (symbol: 3N), tetraploidy (symbol: 4N), etc.
polyposis colus, hereditary	A polyposis syndrome due to an autosomal dominant mutation of the APC genes (GENES, APC) on CHROMOSOME 5. The syndrome is characterized by the development of hundreds of ADENOMATOUS POLYPS in the COLON and RECTUM of affected individuals by early adulthood.
prader-labhart-willi syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
labhart willi syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
prognathism	A condition marked by abnormal protrusion of the mandible. (Dorland, 27th ed)
prognathism nos (disorder)	A condition marked by abnormal protrusion of the mandible. (Dorland, 27th ed)
progenia	A condition marked by abnormal protrusion of the mandible. (Dorland, 27th ed)
belly prune syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
subvalv stenoses pulm	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
disease, classic refsum	An autosomal recessive familial disorder that usually presents in childhood with POLYNEUROPATHY; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; ICHTHYOSIS; ATAXIA; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and CARDIOMYOPATHIES. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1991, Ch37, p58-9; Rev Med Interne 1996;17(5):391-8) This condition can be caused by mutation in the genes encoding peroxisomal phytanoyl-CoA hydroxylase or proteins associated peroxisomal membrane, leading to impaired catabolism of PHYTANIC ACID in PEROXISOMES.
respiratory system abnorm	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital abnormality of respiratory system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital malformations of the respiratory system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
respiratory tract malformation	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital respiratory tract malformation, nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
system abnormality, respiratory	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
retinal dysplasia (disorder)	Congenital, often bilateral, retinal abnormality characterized by the arrangement of outer nuclear retinal cells in a palisading or radiating pattern surrounding a central ocular space. This disorder is sometimes hereditary.
dysplasia; retina	Congenital, often bilateral, retinal abnormality characterized by the arrangement of outer nuclear retinal cells in a palisading or radiating pattern surrounding a central ocular space. This disorder is sometimes hereditary.
retrognathism	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
retrognathism nos (disorder)	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
receding chin	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
right aortic arch	An anatomic abnormality that occurs during embryonic development, in which the aortic arch is right-sided.
short rib polydactyly syndrome, type i	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
short rib-polydactyly syndrome, non-majewski type (disorder)	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
scimitar syndrome	An anomalous pulmonary venous return in which the right PULMONARY VEIN is not connected to the LEFT ATRIUM but to the INFERIOR VENA CAVA. Scimitar syndrome is named for the crescent- or Turkish sword-like shadow in the chest radiography and is often associated with hypoplasia of the right lung and right pulmonary artery, and dextroposition of the heart.
sex chromosome abnormalities	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sex chromosome aberrations	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sex chromosome aberration	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
chromosome aberrations, sex	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
(sirenomelia (& [mermaid] or [sympus]) (disorder)	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
symmelus	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
symmelia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
situs inversus viscerum	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
situs inversus (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
situs inversus, unspecified	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
fao - fatty alcohol-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide oxidase-reductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
sjogren-larsson syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
sjogren-larsson's syndrome	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
skin abnormalities	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
congenital anomaly of skin (disorder)	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
skin; anomaly	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
abnormality of the skin	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
disease, genetic skin	Diseases of the skin with a genetic component, usually the result of various inborn errors of metabolism.
genodermatosis	Diseases of the skin with a genetic component, usually the result of various inborn errors of metabolism.
spina bifida aperta (diagnosis)	A form of spinal dysraphism associated with a protruding cyst made up of either meninges (i.e., a MENINGOCELE) or meninges in combination with spinal cord tissue (i.e., a MENINGOMYELOCELE). These lesions are frequently associated with spinal cord dysfunction, HYDROCEPHALUS, and SYRINGOMYELIA. (From Davis et al., Textbook of Neuropathology, 2nd ed, pp224-5)
spina bifida (aperta)(cystica)	A form of spinal dysraphism associated with a protruding cyst made up of either meninges (i.e., a MENINGOCELE) or meninges in combination with spinal cord tissue (i.e., a MENINGOMYELOCELE). These lesions are frequently associated with spinal cord dysfunction, HYDROCEPHALUS, and SYRINGOMYELIA. (From Davis et al., Textbook of Neuropathology, 2nd ed, pp224-5)
spina bifida aperta	A form of spinal dysraphism associated with a protruding cyst made up of either meninges (i.e., a MENINGOCELE) or meninges in combination with spinal cord tissue (i.e., a MENINGOMYELOCELE). These lesions are frequently associated with spinal cord dysfunction, HYDROCEPHALUS, and SYRINGOMYELIA. (From Davis et al., Textbook of Neuropathology, 2nd ed, pp224-5)
sturge-weber disease	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
neuroretinoangiomatosis	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndrome, sturge-weber-dimitri	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
encephalofacial haemangiomatosis	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sturge-weber syndrome (disorder)	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sturge weber disease	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
tetralogy, fallot's	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
fallot tetralogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
tof	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
thyroglossal duct cyst	A cyst in the neck caused by persistence of portions of, or by lack of closure of, the primitive thyroglossal duct. (Dorland, 27th ed)
cyst; thyroglossal	A cyst in the neck caused by persistence of portions of, or by lack of closure of, the primitive thyroglossal duct. (Dorland, 27th ed)
tooth, supernumerary	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
transposition of great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
complete transposition of great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
great vessels transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
great vessel transposition nos (disorder)	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
arteries great transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
complete transposition of great vessels (diagnosis)	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
great arteries transpositions	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
complete transposition of great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition; great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of great vessels, nos	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
complete transposition of great vessels (disorder)	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
regurgitation, tricuspid	Backflow of blood from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the RIGHT ATRIUM due to imperfect closure of the TRICUSPID VALVE.
tricuspid valve prolapse	Abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of TRICUSPID VALVE into the RIGHT ATRIUM during SYSTOLE. This allows the backflow of blood into right atrium leading to TRICUSPID VALVE INSUFFICIENCY; SYSTOLIC MURMURS. Its most common cause is not primary valve abnormality but rather the dilation of the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the tricuspid annulus.
prolapses, tricuspid valve	Abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of TRICUSPID VALVE into the RIGHT ATRIUM during SYSTOLE. This allows the backflow of blood into right atrium leading to TRICUSPID VALVE INSUFFICIENCY; SYSTOLIC MURMURS. Its most common cause is not primary valve abnormality but rather the dilation of the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the tricuspid annulus.
tricuspid valve prolapse (disorder)	Abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of TRICUSPID VALVE into the RIGHT ATRIUM during SYSTOLE. This allows the backflow of blood into right atrium leading to TRICUSPID VALVE INSUFFICIENCY; SYSTOLIC MURMURS. Its most common cause is not primary valve abnormality but rather the dilation of the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the tricuspid annulus.
trilogy of fallot (diagnosis)	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of three key features including ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; and RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY.
fallots trilogy	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of three key features including ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; and RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY.
common aorto-pulmonary trunk	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
persistent truncus arteriosus	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
common truncus arteriosus (diagnosis)	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
disease, bourneville-pringle	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
tuberous sclerosis	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
cerebral sclerosis	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
epiloia	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
turner syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
xo syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
turner's syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
syndrome, ullrich-turner	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
congenital abnormality of the genitourinary system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
congenital genitourinary abnormality	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
congenital urogenital anomaly (disorder)	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
urogenital anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
disease, white heifer	Vrozená vada pohlavních orgánů u bílých jalovic určitých plemen skotu (např. Belgian Blue, Shorthorn). Bílá barva je dědičný recesivní znak spojený s defekty samičího pohlavního ústrojí (Müllerův vývod). Tyto jalovice jsou většinou sterilní.
angioma pigmentosum atrophicum	A rare, pigmentary, and atrophic autosomal recessive disease. It is manifested as an extreme photosensitivity to ULTRAVIOLET RAYS as the result of a deficiency in the enzyme that permits excisional repair of ultraviolet-damaged DNA.
xeroderma pigmentosum	A rare, pigmentary, and atrophic autosomal recessive disease. It is manifested as an extreme photosensitivity to ULTRAVIOLET RAYS as the result of a deficiency in the enzyme that permits excisional repair of ultraviolet-damaged DNA.
ocular albinism	Albinism affecting the eye in which pigment of the hair and skin is normal or only slightly diluted. The classic type is X-linked (Nettleship-Falls), but an autosomal recessive form also exists. Ocular abnormalities may include reduced pigmentation of the iris, nystagmus, photophobia, strabismus, and decreased visual acuity.
branchial cleft malformation nos	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
branchial cleft anomaly (disorder)	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
erythroderma ichthyosiformes, bullous	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
bie	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
epidermolytic hyperkeratosis	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
ehk	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
congenital nonbullous ichthyosiform erythroderma	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
nonbullous erythroderma ichthyosiforme	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
acquisita bullosa epidermolysis	Form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by trauma-induced, subepidermal blistering with no family history of the disease. Direct immunofluorescence shows IMMUNOGLOBULIN G deposited at the dermo-epidermal junction.
epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica	Form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by atrophy of blistered areas, severe scarring, and nail changes. It is most often present at birth or in early infancy and occurs in both autosomal dominant and recessive forms. All forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa result from mutations in COLLAGEN TYPE VII, a major component fibrils of BASEMENT MEMBRANE and EPIDERMIS.
epidermolysis bullosa simplex	A form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by serous bullae that heal without scarring. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-5 and KERATIN-14 have been associated with several subtypes of epidermolysis bullosa simplex.
junctional epidermolysis bullosa	Form of epidermolysis bullosa having onset at birth or during the neonatal period and transmitted through autosomal recessive inheritance. It is characterized by generalized blister formation, extensive denudation, and separation and cleavage of the basal cell plasma membranes from the basement membrane.
gabeb	Form of epidermolysis bullosa having onset at birth or during the neonatal period and transmitted through autosomal recessive inheritance. It is characterized by generalized blister formation, extensive denudation, and separation and cleavage of the basal cell plasma membranes from the basement membrane.
congenital torticollis (disorder)	A congenital form of torticollis resulting from shortening of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and leading to a limited range of motion in both rotation and lateral bending. [HPO:probinson]
congenital sternomastoid torticollis -retired-	A congenital form of torticollis resulting from shortening of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and leading to a limited range of motion in both rotation and lateral bending. [HPO:probinson]
recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	An autosomal recessive allelic variant of epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica caused by mutation(s) in the COL7A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(VII) chain.
holoprosencephaly sequence	Anterior midline brain, cranial, and facial malformations resulting from the failure of the embryonic prosencephalon to undergo segmentation and cleavage. Alobar prosencephaly is the most severe form and features anophthalmia; cyclopia; severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY; CLEFT LIP; CLEFT PALATE; SEIZURES; and microcephaly. Semilobar holoprosencepaly is characterized by hypotelorism, microphthalmia, coloboma, nasal malformations, and variable degrees of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Lobar holoprosencephaly is associated with mild (or absent) facial malformations and intellectual abilities that range from mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY to normal. Holoprosencephaly is associated with CHROMOSOME ABNORMALITIES.
congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
alligator skin	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
ichthyosiform erythroderma, congenital	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
ichthyosis vulgaris (disorder)	Most common form of ICHTHYOSIS characterized by prominent scaling especially on the exterior surfaces of the extremities. It is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
ichthyosis vulgaris	Most common form of ICHTHYOSIS characterized by prominent scaling especially on the exterior surfaces of the extremities. It is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
ichthyosis, sex-linked	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
ichthyosis, x-linked	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
x-linked ichthyosis with steryl-sulfatase deficiency (disorder)	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
ichthyosis, x linked	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
spina bifida occulta	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
occult spina bifida	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spina bifida occulta (diagnosis)	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spina bifida	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spinal dysrhaphia	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spina bifida nos (disorder)	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
dysraphisms, spinal	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spina bifida (disorder)	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
tethered cord syndrome	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
tethered spinal cord syndrome	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
hailey-hailey disease	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
syndrome, alagille-watson	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
polycystic kidney, autosomal dominant	Kidney disorders with autosomal dominant inheritance and characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS with progressive deterioration of renal function.
polycystic kidney disease, infantile type	A genetic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance, characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS and associated LIVER lesions. Serious manifestations are usually present at BIRTH with high PERINATAL MORTALITY.
total colonic aganglionosis	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
aganglionosis of colon	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
myeloceles	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
myelocele of unspecified site (disorder)	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
myelocele nos	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
anomaly of spinal cord myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
aortic bicuspid valve	The presence of an aortic valve with two instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). Bicuspid aortic valvue is a malformation of a commissure (small space between the attachment of each cusp to the aortic wall) and the adjacent parts of the two corresponding cusps forming a raphe (the fused area of the two underdeveloped cusps turning into a malformed commissure between both cusps; the raphe is a fibrous ridge that extends from the commissure to the free edge of the two underdeveloped, conjoint cusps). [HPO:probinson, PMID:17467434, PMID:24827036]
pancreas; annulare	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
musculoskeletal congenital anomaly	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital musculoskeletal anomalies nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital musculoskeletal deformity nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital musculoskeletal anomalies nos (disorder)	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
skeletal anomaly-congen	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital musculoskeletal defect	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital malformation and deformation of the musculoskeletal system	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital heart disease	imperfections or malformations of the heart, existing at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation.
complete trisomy 13 syndrome	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
patau	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
patau's syndrome, unspecified	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
edward's syndrome	a kind of genetic disease
edwards' syndrome, unspecified	a kind of genetic disease
edwards syndrome	a kind of genetic disease
edward syndrome	a kind of genetic disease
ankyloblepharon	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
congenital ankyloblepharon	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
congenital ankyloblepharon (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
fused eyelid	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
congenital ankyloblepharon (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
iniencephalus	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
ties tongue	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
fused to floor of mouth	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
tongue tie (diagnosis)	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
tongue tie	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
atretic transverse aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
interrupt of aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
interruption of aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
absence of interventricular septum	An umbrella term used to describe several very different complex congenital heart defects that share the same problem: the heart has only one functional ventricle (anatomically right or left or indeterminate) supplying the systemic circulation. These defects include tricuspid atresia, hypoplastic left or right heart syndrome, double outlet right ventricle, double inlet left ventricle, and other forms of single ventricle defects.
craniorachischisis (diagnosis)	A rare and severe form of neural tube defect in which there are open cranial and open spinal defects at birth.
craniorachischises	A rare and severe form of neural tube defect in which there are open cranial and open spinal defects at birth.
imperforate hymen (disorder)	A congenital disorder where the hymen (a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening) does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina. [PMID:24822139]
hydromyelia	Dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo. [HPO:sdoelken]
vascular anomalies of eyelid	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
eyelid vascular disorder	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
eyelid vascular anomalies (disorder)	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
coloboma of optic nerve	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
umbilical hernia with gangrene (disorder)	A protrusion of necrotic tissue through the abdominal wall under the skin near the umbilicus.
cyst; preauricular	Preauricular sinus is an occasional finding and most frequently appears as a small pit close to the anterior margin of the ascending portion of the helix. The opening has also been reported along the postero superior margin of the helix, the tragus or the lobule. Preauricular sinus may lead to the formation of a subcutaneous cyst that is intimately related to the tragal cartilage and the anterior crus of the helix. [PMID:24427573]
congenital aortic regurgitation	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
aortic valve; deformity, insufficiency	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congenital aortic valve insufficiency nos (disorder)	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congenital mitral valve stenosis (diagnosis)	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital mitral valve stenosis	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital stenosis of mitral valve (disorder)	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
duroziez	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
stenosis;mitral;congenital	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital mitral stenosis, unspecified	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital mitral stenosis	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
stenosis; mitral, congenital	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congen mitral stenosis	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
partial anomalous pulmonary venous connection	A congenital heart disorder in which one or two pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the right atrium instead. It may lead to arrhythmias and pulmonary hypertension.
lung anomaly nos	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
congenital anomaly of lung, unspecified	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
congenital malformation of lung, unspecified	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
anomaly of lung, unspecified	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
congenital anomaly of lung	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
lung; anomaly	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
cleft palate and lip (disorder)	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
with cleft lip palate	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
missing tongue	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
liver; polycystic	A usually asymptomatic hereditary disorder which is often associated with polycystic kidney disease. It is characterized by the presence of fluid-filled biliary cysts throughout the liver.
congenital anomaly of urinary tract proper (diagnosis)	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital deformity nos of urinary system any part, except urachus	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
urinary anomaly nos	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital malformations of the urinary system (q60-q64)	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
urinary -congen.anomaly	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital deformity of urinary tract, nos	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital malformations of the urinary system	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
radioulnar synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the ulna. [HPO:probinson]
radioulnar; synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the ulna. [HPO:probinson]
macrodactyly of toe	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hydrocele	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
congenital hydrocele of tunica vaginalis (diagnosis)	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
ectodermal dysplasia 1, hypohidrotic, x-linked	An X-linked form of ectodermal dysplasia which results from mutations of the gene encoding ECTODYSPLASIN.
congenital biliary ectasias	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
dilatation intrahepatic duct congenital	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
angelman's syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
angelmans syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
angelman syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
neurofibromatoses	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
neurofibromatosis	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
syndrome, neurofibromatosis	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
neurofibromatosis syndrome	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
neurofibromatosis, unspecified	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
dysplasia olfactogenitalis of de morsier	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism-anosmia syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
type 2 punctate ppk	A rare form of porokeratosis occurring mainly in adolescence and characterized by small pruritic or painful keratotic papules that first appear on the palms and soles, and may gradually become generalized. The prevalence is unknown but it is one of the rarest forms of porokeratosis. The disease is more frequently seen in males. The exact etiology is unknown. A possible locus for PPPD has been found on chromosome 12q24.1-24.2. Usually follows a dominant (autosomal or X-linked) pattern of inheritance.
porokeratosis plantaris palmaris et disseminata	A rare form of porokeratosis occurring mainly in adolescence and characterized by small pruritic or painful keratotic papules that first appear on the palms and soles, and may gradually become generalized. The prevalence is unknown but it is one of the rarest forms of porokeratosis. The disease is more frequently seen in males. The exact etiology is unknown. A possible locus for PPPD has been found on chromosome 12q24.1-24.2. Usually follows a dominant (autosomal or X-linked) pattern of inheritance.
sotos' syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
cerebral gigantism	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
lps	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
chotzen syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
saethre chotzen syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly, type 3	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
williams syndrome	A disorder caused by hemizygous microdeletion of about 28 genes on chromosome 7q11.23, including the ELASTIN gene. Clinical manifestations include SUPRAVALVULAR AORTIC STENOSIS; MENTAL RETARDATION; elfin facies; impaired visuospatial constructive abilities; and transient HYPERCALCEMIA in infancy. The condition affects both sexes, with onset at birth or in early infancy.
cardiomyopathic lentiginoses	Ett syndrom som kännetecknas av lentigo, ekg-avvikelser, hypertelorism, pulmonalstenos, onormalt utvecklade könsorgan, hämmad växt och dövhet. Det beror på mutationer i PTPN11-genen, som kodar för protein-tyrosinfosfatas typ 11, ett icke-receptorprotein. De kliniska dragen delas med Noonans syndrom, som också beror på mutationer i PTPN11, och med neurofibromatos 1. Syndromet har även kopplats till mutationer i NF1-genen.
potter's syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
oligohydramnios sequence	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potter syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
syndrome potter	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
wagr syndrome	A contiguous gene syndrome associated with hemizygous deletions of chromosome region 11p13. The condition is marked by the combination of WILMS TUMOR; ANIRIDIA; GENITOURINARY ABNORMALITIES; and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
nemaline myopathy	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
nemaline body disease	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
plexiform neurofibroma (morphologic abnormality)	A type of neurofibroma manifesting as a diffuse overgrowth of subcutaneous tissue, usually involving the face, scalp, neck, and chest but occasionally occurring in the abdomen or pelvis. The tumors tend to progress, and may extend along nerve roots to eventually involve the spinal roots and spinal cord. This process is almost always a manifestation of NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1016; J Pediatr 1997 Nov;131(5):678-82)
capillary hemangioma of skin	A dull red, firm, dome-shaped hemangioma, sharply demarcated from surrounding skin, usually located on the head and neck, which grows rapidly and generally undergoes regression and involution without scarring. It is caused by proliferation of immature capillary vessels in active stroma, and is usually present at birth or occurs within the first two or three months of life. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital limb deformity nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
unspecified congenital malformation of limb(s)	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
limb deformity, congenital	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
pfeiffer syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly, type v	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus, type i	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus (disorder)	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
aase-smith syndrome i	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
velo-cardio-facial syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
erythrokeratoderma en cocarde (degos)	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
erythrokeratoderma en cocardes (disorder)	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
degos's malignant atrophic papulosis	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
triple x; syndrome	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
triple x syndrome	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
charlie m. syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
mobs - moebius syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
möbius sequence	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
moebius congenital oculofacial paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
möbius syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
mobius syndromes	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
palmar creases; abnormal	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal palmar crease	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal palmar creases (disorder) [ambiguous]	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal palmar creases	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal; palmar creases	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal palmar creases (disorder)	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
vascular ring	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular rings (disorder)	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring, aorta	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring - disorder	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring of aorta	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular rings	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring of aorta (disorder)	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
ostium atrioventriculare commune	A congenital heart defect characterized by a specific combination of heart defects with a common atrioventricular valve, primum atrial septal defect and inlet ventricular septal defect. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:16722604]
frontal bossing (physical finding)	A skeletal deformity characterized by an unusually prominent forehead. Causes include acromegaly, Hurler syndrome, Silver-Russell syndrome, and thalassemia major.
brachycephaly	Hlava s nápadně krátkým předozadním průměrem způsobená kraniosynostózou koronárního švu s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Jeho varianty jsou 1. brachycephalus simplex - zkrácení hlavně spodiny lební 2. pachycefalus - hlava vpředu krátká, vzadu široká 3. oxycefalus - hlava krátká, vpředu široká, do výšky zašpičatělá - věžovitá hlava 4. platycefalus - plochá hlava 5. trochocefalus - abnormálně kulatá hlava. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
short anteroposterior diameter of skull	Hlava s nápadně krátkým předozadním průměrem způsobená kraniosynostózou koronárního švu s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Jeho varianty jsou 1. brachycephalus simplex - zkrácení hlavně spodiny lební 2. pachycefalus - hlava vpředu krátká, vzadu široká 3. oxycefalus - hlava krátká, vpředu široká, do výšky zašpičatělá - věžovitá hlava 4. platycefalus - plochá hlava 5. trochocefalus - abnormálně kulatá hlava. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
brachycephaly (disorder)	Hlava s nápadně krátkým předozadním průměrem způsobená kraniosynostózou koronárního švu s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Jeho varianty jsou 1. brachycephalus simplex - zkrácení hlavně spodiny lební 2. pachycefalus - hlava vpředu krátká, vzadu široká 3. oxycefalus - hlava krátká, vpředu široká, do výšky zašpičatělá - věžovitá hlava 4. platycefalus - plochá hlava 5. trochocefalus - abnormálně kulatá hlava. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
brachydactyly syndrome	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
diaphragm; agenesis	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
double ureter	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of two separate ureters draining a kidney.
double ureters	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of two separate ureters draining a kidney.
nevus flammeus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
port wine nevus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
myopathy; facioscapulohumeral	En autosomalt dominant, degenerativ muskelsjukdom som kännetecknas av långsamt tilltagande svaghet i ansiktets, överarmens och skuldergördelns muskler. Symtomen debuterar vanligtvis under livets första eller andra årtionde. De drabbade uppvisar oftast försämrad förmåga att höja armarna. Dessa tecken brukar följas av ansiktsmuskelsvaghet, främst i munnens och ögats ringmuskler.
facioscapulohumeral; myopathy	En autosomalt dominant, degenerativ muskelsjukdom som kännetecknas av långsamt tilltagande svaghet i ansiktets, överarmens och skuldergördelns muskler. Symtomen debuterar vanligtvis under livets första eller andra årtionde. De drabbade uppvisar oftast försämrad förmåga att höja armarna. Dessa tecken brukar följas av ansiktsmuskelsvaghet, främst i munnens och ögats ringmuskler.
pseudohermaphroditism; female	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In female pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is female (XX) and the gonads are ovaries, but the external genitalia are virilized. [HPO:curators]
pseudohermaphroditism male	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
congenital posterior urethral valves (disorder)	A developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of an obstructing membrane in the posterior urethra of the male newborn. It results in bladder obstruction.
congenital posterior urethral valves	A developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of an obstructing membrane in the posterior urethra of the male newborn. It results in bladder obstruction.
harlequin fetus	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
harlequin ichthyoses	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
harlequin fetus (disorder)	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
harlequin foetus	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
small teeth	Decreased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD below mean. Alternatively, an apparently decreased maximum width of tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
high-arched palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
fundus coloboma	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
congenital atresia of pulmonary valve (disorder)	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
tricuspid valve atresia	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
congenital tricuspid valve atresia	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
atresia; tricuspid valve	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
tricuspid valve atresias	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
right atrioventricular valve atresia (diagnosis)	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
congenital atresia of tricuspid valve	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
multiple sebaceous cyst	A disorder characterized by multiple, wide spread cutaneous cysts that often become inflamed and rupture. It is caused by the same mutations in the gene coding for KRT-17 that are causative mutations for Pachyonychia congenita, Type 2. Natal teeth involvement is sometimes associated with steatocystoma multiplex.
keratosis pilaris	A very common, non-neoplastic dermatologic disorder characterized by keratinization of hair follicles of the skin. It manifests as small, rough folliculocentric keratotic papules, usually in the outer-upper arms and thighs. It affects children and adolescents and usually improves with age.
marmorata; cutis	A reticular discoloration of the skin with cyanotic (reddish-blue appearing) areas surrounding pale central areas due to dilation of capillary blood vessels and stagnation of blood within the vessels. Cutis marmorata generally occurs on the legs, arms and trunk and is often more severe in cold weather. [HPO:sdoelken]
cutis; marmorata	A reticular discoloration of the skin with cyanotic (reddish-blue appearing) areas surrounding pale central areas due to dilation of capillary blood vessels and stagnation of blood within the vessels. Cutis marmorata generally occurs on the legs, arms and trunk and is often more severe in cold weather. [HPO:sdoelken]
keratosis pilaris atrophicans facies	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
ulerythema of eyebrows	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
pigmented hairy epidermal nevus	A benign lesion that is sometimes congenital and consists of an overgrowth of the epidermis and the presence of melanin-containing cells. It is found mostly in males and typically develops during childhood or adolescence, becoming darker and more hairy after puberty.
angioma serpiginosum (diagnosis)	A hemangioma arising from the skin, presenting as a red dot.
de sanctis-cacchione syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome. It is characterized by xeroderma pigmentosum, mental retardation, dwarfism, hypogonadism, and neurologic abnormalities.
seckel	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
nanocephalic dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
seckel-type dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
bird-headed dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
bird-headed dwarf	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
microcephalic primordial dwarfism	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
seckels syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
distal arthrogryposis	An inherited primary limb malformation disorder characterized by congenital contractures of two or more different body areas and without primary neurologic and/or muscle disease that affects limb function. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8923935]
distal arthrogryposis syndrome	An inherited primary limb malformation disorder characterized by congenital contractures of two or more different body areas and without primary neurologic and/or muscle disease that affects limb function. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8923935]
syndrome, miller-dieker	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
miller dieker syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
cod-md syndromes	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
cerebroocular dysplasia-muscular dystrophy syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
walker warburg syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
syndrome, walker-warburg	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
warburg syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
walker-warburg congenital muscular dystrophy (disorder)	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
hard syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
syndrome; whistling face	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
cryptophthalmos, defect of auricle and genital anomaly	Rare autosomal recessive congenital malformation syndrome characterized by cryptophthalmos, SYNDACTYLY and UROGENITAL ABNORMALITIES. Other anomalies of bone, ear, lung, and nose are common. Mutations on FRAS1 and FREM2 are associated with the syndrome.
cryptophthalmos syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive congenital malformation syndrome characterized by cryptophthalmos, SYNDACTYLY and UROGENITAL ABNORMALITIES. Other anomalies of bone, ear, lung, and nose are common. Mutations on FRAS1 and FREM2 are associated with the syndrome.
branchiootorenal dysplasia	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
goldenhar syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
first arch syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
dysplasia, oculoauriculovertebral	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
taybi syndrome	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
coffin syndrome	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
coffin lowry syndrome	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
pps - popliteal pterygium syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
cardiac-limb syndrome	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
spherophakia-brachymorphia syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
syndrome, neuroectodermal dysplasia	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
anomalies of skin phakomatoses	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
neuroectodermal dysplasia syndromes	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
phakomatosis	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
phacomatoses	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
neurocutaneous syndrome (disorder)	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
phakomatoses (diagnosis)	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
adenoma sebaceum	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
fibrous skin tumor of tuberous sclerosis	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
fibrous skin tumor of tuberous sclerosis (disorder)	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
facial angiofibromas	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
fibrous skin tumor of tuberous sclerosis (diagnosis)	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
peutz-jeghers small intestine hamartoma	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
peutz-jeghers polyps of small bowel	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
peutz-jeghers hamartoma of small bowel	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
peutz-jeghers polyps of small bowel (disorder)	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
peutz-jeghers hamartoma of the small bowel	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
constitutional mismatch repair deficiency syndrome	An autosomal dominant hereditary neoplastic syndrome caused by mutations in the PMS2, MLH1, MSH2, or APC genes. There are two types described, type 1, characterized by the presence of glioblastoma and often associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal carcinoma, and type 2, characterized by the presence of medulloblastoma and familiar adenomatous polyposis.
bannayan-zonana syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
alopecia-epilepsy-oligophrenia syndrome of moynahan	A rare genetic epilepsy syndrome with characteristics of congenital alopecia, early-onset epilepsy, intellectual disability and speech delay. Large stature, delayed bone development and abnormal electroencephalogram have also been associated.
spondylothoracic dysplasia	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
ring chromosome 1 syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth failure, developmental delay, intellectual disability, microcephaly and dysmorphic facial features. Some less frequent clinical features are dysgenesis of corpus callosum, atrial septal defect, rocker bottom feet and clinodactyly.
ring chromosome 1 syndrome (diagnosis)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth failure, developmental delay, intellectual disability, microcephaly and dysmorphic facial features. Some less frequent clinical features are dysgenesis of corpus callosum, atrial septal defect, rocker bottom feet and clinodactyly.
ring chromosome 4 syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, developmental delay, intellectual disability, microcephaly, and dysmorphic facial features. Some less frequent features are cleft lip and/or cleft palate, congenital cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and genitourinary system anomalies.
ring chromosome 4 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, developmental delay, intellectual disability, microcephaly, and dysmorphic facial features. Some less frequent features are cleft lip and/or cleft palate, congenital cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and genitourinary system anomalies.
distal deletion 9p	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9. The syndrome has a highly variable phenotype with typical characteristics of intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism (trigonocephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, hypoplastic supraorbital ridges), abnormal digits (long middle phalanges with short distal phalanges), as well as frequent association with genitourinary abnormalities (cryptorchidism, hypospadias, ambiguous genitalia, 46,XY testicular dysgenesis). Congenital hypothyroidism and cardiovascular defects have been reported in some cases. Patients present an increased risk for gonadoblastoma.
9p monosomy syndrome	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9. The syndrome has a highly variable phenotype with typical characteristics of intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism (trigonocephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, hypoplastic supraorbital ridges), abnormal digits (long middle phalanges with short distal phalanges), as well as frequent association with genitourinary abnormalities (cryptorchidism, hypospadias, ambiguous genitalia, 46,XY testicular dysgenesis). Congenital hypothyroidism and cardiovascular defects have been reported in some cases. Patients present an increased risk for gonadoblastoma.
ring chromosome 9 syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including developmental delay, some degree of intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism, microcephaly, congenital heart anomalies and variable genital, limb and skeletal anomalies.
ring chromosome 9 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including developmental delay, some degree of intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism, microcephaly, congenital heart anomalies and variable genital, limb and skeletal anomalies.
ring chromosome 10 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, depending on the size and precise location of deleted chromosome segments. Most patients present with developmental delay, intellectual disability, growth retardation, microcephaly, clinodactyly and dysmorphic features. Congenital heart disease and genitourinary anomalies are reported in some cases.
ring chromosome 10 syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, depending on the size and precise location of deleted chromosome segments. Most patients present with developmental delay, intellectual disability, growth retardation, microcephaly, clinodactyly and dysmorphic features. Congenital heart disease and genitourinary anomalies are reported in some cases.
ring chromosome 11 syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, including early growth retardation and short stature, microcephaly, developmental delay, some degree of intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism and cafe-au-lait spots. In some cases, congenital heart disease and endocrine abnormalities have been reported.
anomaly of chromosome pair ring chromosome 11 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, including early growth retardation and short stature, microcephaly, developmental delay, some degree of intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism and cafe-au-lait spots. In some cases, congenital heart disease and endocrine abnormalities have been reported.
tetrasomy 12p, mosaic	A very rare chromosomal disorder caused by tetrasomy of chromosome 12p. It is characterized by severe mental retardation, prominent forehead, sparse temporofrontal hair, hypertelorism, short nose, and streaks of hypopigmented skin.
pallister-killian syndrome	A very rare chromosomal disorder caused by tetrasomy of chromosome 12p. It is characterized by severe mental retardation, prominent forehead, sparse temporofrontal hair, hypertelorism, short nose, and streaks of hypopigmented skin.
tetrasomy 12p	A very rare chromosomal disorder caused by tetrasomy of chromosome 12p. It is characterized by severe mental retardation, prominent forehead, sparse temporofrontal hair, hypertelorism, short nose, and streaks of hypopigmented skin.
partial monosomy 13q syndrome	A rare syndrome that is characterized by the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13. Signs and symptoms include low birth weight, craniofacial malformations, hands and feet malformations, and mental and psychomotor retardation.
chromosome 13q deletion syndrome	A rare syndrome that is characterized by the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13. Signs and symptoms include low birth weight, craniofacial malformations, hands and feet malformations, and mental and psychomotor retardation.
14q partial distal trisomy syndrome	A rare partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including growth retardation and low birth weight, hypotonia, developmental delay, intellectual disability, short stature, microcephaly, facial dysmorphism (frontal bossing, hypertelorism, bulbous nose, micrognathia, sparse hair and eyebrows), congenital heart defects, spasticity and hyperreflexia.
14q partial distal trisomy syndrome (disorder)	A rare partial duplication of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including growth retardation and low birth weight, hypotonia, developmental delay, intellectual disability, short stature, microcephaly, facial dysmorphism (frontal bossing, hypertelorism, bulbous nose, micrognathia, sparse hair and eyebrows), congenital heart defects, spasticity and hyperreflexia.
anomaly of chromosome pair ring 18 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including hypotonia, neonatal feeding and respiratory difficulties, microcephaly, global developmental delay and intellectual disability, growth hormone deficiency, hypothyroidism, hearing loss, aural atresia, dysmorphic facial features and behavioural characteristics.
ring chromosome 18 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including hypotonia, neonatal feeding and respiratory difficulties, microcephaly, global developmental delay and intellectual disability, growth hormone deficiency, hypothyroidism, hearing loss, aural atresia, dysmorphic facial features and behavioural characteristics.
mosaic trisomy 20 syndrome (disorder)	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal (in the majority of cases) to a mild, subtle phenotype. Principle characteristics are spinal abnormalities (stenosis, vertebral fusion, and kyphosis), hypotonia, lifelong constipation, sloped shoulders, skin pigmentation abnormalities (linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis) and significant learning disabilities despite normal intelligence. More severe phenotypes, with patients presenting psychomotor and speech delay, mild facial dysmorphism, cardiac (ventricular septal defect, dysplastic tricuspid mitral valve) and renal anomalies (horseshoe kidneys) have also been reported.
trisomy 20 mosaicism	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal (in the majority of cases) to a mild, subtle phenotype. Principle characteristics are spinal abnormalities (stenosis, vertebral fusion, and kyphosis), hypotonia, lifelong constipation, sloped shoulders, skin pigmentation abnormalities (linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis) and significant learning disabilities despite normal intelligence. More severe phenotypes, with patients presenting psychomotor and speech delay, mild facial dysmorphism, cardiac (ventricular septal defect, dysplastic tricuspid mitral valve) and renal anomalies (horseshoe kidneys) have also been reported.
20p partial trisomy syndrome (disorder)	Disorder resulting from duplication of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 20 with characteristics of normal growth, mild to moderate intellectual disability, speech delay, poor coordination and evocative facial features. The chromosomal anomaly may occur de novo, but most reported cases arise from a reciprocal translocation or, as described in a few cases, a parental inversion.
trisomy 20p syndrome	Disorder resulting from duplication of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 20 with characteristics of normal growth, mild to moderate intellectual disability, speech delay, poor coordination and evocative facial features. The chromosomal anomaly may occur de novo, but most reported cases arise from a reciprocal translocation or, as described in a few cases, a parental inversion.
ring chromosome 20	Disease marked by a characteristic seizure phenotype. Depending on the amount of chromosomal loss and associated mosaicism, ring(20) can be associated with macrocephaly, mild to moderate intellectual deficit, or behavioural problems. In rare cases, brain, kidney or heart malformations may be present.
ring chromosome 21 syndrome (diagnosis)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including growth retardation, developmental delay, intellectual disability, epilepsy, microcephaly, short stature, dysmorphic features, hypogammaglobulinemia, thrombocytopenia and unspecific skeletal anomalies (hemivertebrae, clinodactyly, syndactyly). In rare cases, it has been described in phenotypically normal individuals.
anomaly of chromosome pair ring 21 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including growth retardation, developmental delay, intellectual disability, epilepsy, microcephaly, short stature, dysmorphic features, hypogammaglobulinemia, thrombocytopenia and unspecific skeletal anomalies (hemivertebrae, clinodactyly, syndactyly). In rare cases, it has been described in phenotypically normal individuals.
complete trisomy 22 syndrome (disorder)	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
trisomy 22	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
chromosome 22, trisomy	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
ring chromosome 22 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including global developmental delay, hypotonia, growth retardation with microcephaly, intellectual disability with severe speech delay, seizures or abnormal EEG, autistic spectrum disorder and other behavioural characteristics.
ces - cat eye syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
schmid-fraccaro syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
syndrome; xxxx, female, 48,xxxx	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
syndrome; xxxx	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
penta-x syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
chromosome xxxxx syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
xxxy syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has 2 extra X chromosomes.
xxxy syndrome (disorder)	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has 2 extra X chromosomes.
trigonocephaly	Wedge-shaped, or triangular head, with the apex of the triangle at the midline of the forehead and the base of the triangle at the occiput. [PMID:19125436]
trigonocephalus	Wedge-shaped, or triangular head, with the apex of the triangle at the midline of the forehead and the base of the triangle at the occiput. [PMID:19125436]
craniolacunia	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
lacunar skull	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
dimelia	Congenital duplication of all or part of a limb. []
duplication of limb nos	Congenital duplication of all or part of a limb. []
congenital pseudarthrosis of clavicle	The two portions of the clavicle (corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle) are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum, and a synovial membrane develops, resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically. Congenital pseudarthrosis of the clavicle generally presents as a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22295044]
accessory carpal bone	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
anomaly; hip	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
phocomelia of lower limb, nos	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
phocomelia of lower limb	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital talipes equinovalgus (diagnosis)	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
tarsal fusion	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
tarsal bone fusion	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
bipartite patella (diagnosis)	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
fused ribs	Complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nasal deformity (disorder)	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
underdevelopment of nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of trachea	A congenital absence or considerable underdevelopment of the trachea such that communication between the larynx proximally and the alveoli of the lungs distally is lacking. [HPO:probinson, PMID:9776081]
congenital bronchial atresia	A developmental anomaly characterised by focal obliteration of the proximal segment of a bronchus. The bronchial pattern is entirely normal distal to the site of stenosis. [UToronto:chum]
congenital lobar emphysema (disorder)	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
congenital lobar emphysema	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
double outlet from morphologic left ventricular chamber	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
double; outlet, left ventricle	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary; insufficiency, valve, congenital	Dysfunction of the pulmonary valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
tricuspid valve hypoplasia	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital heart defect tricuspid valve hypoplasia	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
underdeveloped tricuspid valve	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital hypoplasia of right atrioventricular valve	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
atresia; aortic valve	A rare congenital heart defect characterized by the complete failure of the aortic valve to open. It is manifested during infancy with cyanosis, dyspnea, and rapidly progressing heart failure.
underdeveloped right heart	Underdevelopment of the right-sided structures of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic right heart	Underdevelopment of the right-sided structures of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
uhl's disease	Uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium, normal tricuspid valve, and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium. [PMID:10859296, PMID:16322929]
absent coronary sinus	A developmental defect in which the coronary sinus fails to form. [HPO:nvasilevsky, PMID:24551710]
fibroelastosis cordis	Endocardial fibroelastosis unassociated with other cardiac abnormalities.
isolated endocardial fibroelastosis	Endocardial fibroelastosis unassociated with other cardiac abnormalities.
preductal coarctation of aorta	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized proximal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the preductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
postductal aortic coarctation	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized distal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the postductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
hypoplasia of aortic arch, unspecified	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
hypoplasia of aortic arch	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
tubular hypoplasia of aortic arch	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
congenital hypoplasia of ascending aorta	Significant luminal narrowing of a long segment of or the entire ascending aorta. [PMID:13938144]
double aortic arch	A conenital abnormality of the aortic arch in which the two embryonic aortc arches form a vascular ring that surrounds the trachea or esophagus and then join to form the descending aorta. Double aortic arch can cause symptoms because of compression of the esophagus (dysphagia, cyanosis while eating) or trachea (stridor). [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:15148283, PMID:15564538]
kommerell's diverticulum	A patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring. [DDD:dbrown]
left aortic arch with retroesophageal diverticulum of kommerell	A patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring. [DDD:dbrown]
overriding aorta	An overriding aorta is a congenital heart defect where the aorta is positioned directly over a ventricular septal defect, instead of over the left ventricle. The result is that the aorta receives some blood from the right ventricle, which reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood. It is one of the four conditions of the Tetralogy of Fallot. The aortic root can be displaced toward the front (anteriorly) or directly above the septal defect, but it is always abnormally located to the right of the root of the pulmonary artery. The degree of override is quite variable, with 5-95% of the valve being connected to the right ventricle. [HPO:curators]
coronary; fistula	A congenital malformation with abnormal connection between one of the coronary arteries and a heart chamber or another blood vessel. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:20513726]
origin of left circumflex artery from right coronary artery (disorder)	An abnormal origin of the left circumflex artery (LCX) from the right coronary artery. Normally, the left anterior descending (LAD) and the LCX arise from a common stem, the left main coronary artery (LMCA). [PMID:27358682]
agenesis of pulmonary artery	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
congenital absence of pulmonary artery	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
a.pulmonalis; atresia	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of pulmonary artery (diagnosis)	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of pulmonary artery	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery atresia	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
imperforate pulmonary artery	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of pulmonary artery	Underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
anomalous pulmonary vein (morphologic abnormality)	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
abnormality of the pulmonary veins	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
anomalous pulmonary vein	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
anomaly of the pulmonary veins, unspecified (disorder)	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
anomalous pulmonary vein (morphologic abnormality)(body structure)	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
pulmonary vein abnormality	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
abnormality of lung veins	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
persistent; left superior vena cava	A rare congenital vascular anomaly that results when the left superior cardinal vein caudal to the innominate vein fails to regress. [PMID:18847480]
erythrokeratodermia variabilis	An autosomal dominant skin disease characterized by transient and variable noninflammatory ERYTHEMA and hyperkeratosis. It has been associated with mutations in the genes that code for CONNEXINS. Erythrokeratodermia variabilis inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion has also been reported. Affected individuals often develop PALMOPLANTAR KERATODERMA.
netherton's disease	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
netherton's syndrome [ambiguous]	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
lamellar ichthyosis and trichorrhexis invaginata syndrome (diagnosis)	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
netherton syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
lamellar ichthyosis and trichorrhexis invaginata syndrome (disorder)	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
congenital dyskeratosis	A predominantly X-linked recessive syndrome characterized by a triad of reticular skin pigmentation, nail dystrophy and leukoplakia of mucous membranes. Oral and dental abnormalities may also be present. Complications are a predisposition to malignancy and bone marrow involvement with pancytopenia. (from Int J Paediatr Dent 2000 Dec;10(4):328-34) The X-linked form is also known as Zinsser-Cole-Engman syndrome and involves the gene which encodes a highly conserved protein called dyskerin.
dyskeratosis, hereditary benign intraepithelial	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with variable penetrance. It was initially described among Native Americans belonging to the Haliwa-Saponi tribe of northeastern North Carolina. It is caused by a duplication of chromosomal DNA at 4q35. Clinical signs present in early childhood and include asymptomatic plaques of the epibulbar conjunctivae and oral mucosa. Clinical progression of the plaques to malignancy has not been reported.
hereditary benign intraepithelial dyskeratosis	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with variable penetrance. It was initially described among Native Americans belonging to the Haliwa-Saponi tribe of northeastern North Carolina. It is caused by a duplication of chromosomal DNA at 4q35. Clinical signs present in early childhood and include asymptomatic plaques of the epibulbar conjunctivae and oral mucosa. Clinical progression of the plaques to malignancy has not been reported.
acrokeratosis verruciformis	A rare genetic skin keratinization disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. It is characterized by numerous flesh-colored warty papules on the back of the hands, medial aspect of the feet, knees, and elbows.
birth mark, unspecified	<p>Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html">Pigmented</a> birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/moles.html">Moles</a> can be birthmarks.</p> <p>No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery. </p> <p>Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider.</p>
birthmark nos	<p>Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html">Pigmented</a> birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/moles.html">Moles</a> can be birthmarks.</p> <p>No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery. </p> <p>Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider.</p>
fibrous hamartoma of infancy	A rare, benign soft tissue tumor that typically occurs within the first two years of life. [HPO:sdoelken]
nevus anemicus	A congenital skin lesion characterized by irregular hypopigmented macules that coalesce to form plaques and occur particularly on the chest. It is generally present at birth or develops in the first days of life. It is more common in females. Diagnosis is confirmed by applying gentle friction to the lesion and the surrounding skin and checking that the erythema produced in the healthy skin does not appear in the hypopigmented lesion. This pale macule becomes more conspicuous when the lesion and its surroundings are rubbed. The margin of the naevus is ill-defined and consists of an archipelago of small anaemic spots. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
blue sacral spot	Ett blågrått till gråbrunt, godartat, melanocytiskt nevus som oftast påträffas i lumbosakralregionen hos mörkhyade människor, särskilt dem av östasiatiskt ursprung. Födelsemärket är vanligtvis medfött eller uppträder kort efter födseln, och försvinner under barndomstiden.
nevus comedonicus	A type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged, dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones. [PMID:23888253]
naevus comedonicus	A type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged, dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones. [PMID:23888253]
subungual fibromas	The presence of fibromata beneath finger or toenails. [HPO:curators]
congenital anomaly;digestive	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
congenital malformation of digestive system, unspecified	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
digestive system abnormality	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
congenital anomaly digestive system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
mulberry molars	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
mulberry molars; molars	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
enamel pearls	Small nodules of enamel on the root of a tooth. [PMID:31468724]
macrodontia (disorder)	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
peg-shaped teeth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
taurodontia	Increased volume of dental pulp of permanent molar characterized by a crown body-root ratio equal or larger than 1:1 or an elongated pulp chambers and apical displacement of the bifurcation or trifurcation of the roots. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
hypoplasia; cementum	The decrease or absence of cementum. The cementum anchors the periodontal ligament attachment fiber between the tooth root and the alveolar bone. Its absence leads to early loss of teeth. [PMID:31468724]
hypoplasia of cementum	The decrease or absence of cementum. The cementum anchors the periodontal ligament attachment fiber between the tooth root and the alveolar bone. Its absence leads to early loss of teeth. [PMID:31468724]
premature eruption of teeth	Premature tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD earlier than the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
anterior open bite	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
anterior openbite	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
nonocclusion	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
openbite	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
posterior open bite (diagnosis)	<p>Posterior open bite</p>
cleft lip and cleft jaw	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip and upper jaw.
cleft upper lip, upper jaw and palate (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip, hard and/or soft palate and upper jaw.
nasopalatine duct cyst	A non-odontogenic cyst of developmental origin that arises in the midline of the anterior maxilla. It is found exclusively in the midline of the anterior hard palate. (WHO 2017)
tongue; double	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
congenital absence of uvula (diagnosis)	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
uvula aplasia	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
congenital esophageal anomaly	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
deformity; esophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformations of oesophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital oesophageal anomaly	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
esophageal duplication	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the esophagus. The duplicated segment may by tubular or cystic.
congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula	Congenital tracheoesophageal fistula without esophageal atresia.
duplication of intestine nos	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the intestine. The duplicated segment is cystic.
duplication of intestine	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the intestine. The duplicated segment is cystic.
small intestine atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
congenital small intestine atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
congenital small intestinal atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
congenital duodenal atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the duodenum.
apsb	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the jejunum.
megaduodenum (disorder)	Dilation and elongation of the duodenum with hypertrophy of all layers of the duodenum. []
megaduodenum	Dilation and elongation of the duodenum with hypertrophy of all layers of the duodenum. []
persistent cloaca (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality in which the rectum, vagina, and urethra fuse and form a common channel.
ectopic anus (diagnosis)	Abnormal displacement or malposition of the anus. [HPO:probinson]
ectopic anus	Abnormal displacement or malposition of the anus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of gallbladder (disorder)	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the gallbladder	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly of the gallbladder	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder anomaly congenital nos	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder anomaly, unspecified	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of pancreas	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic pancreas	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
pancreas; hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
pancreatic divisum	A congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development. Three variants have been described: type 1 or classical divisum in which there is total failure of fusion; type 2 in which dorsal drainage is dominant in the absence of the duct of Wirsung; and type 3 or incomplete divisum where a small communicating branch is present. [PMID:24265565]
pancreas divisum	A congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development. Three variants have been described: type 1 or classical divisum in which there is total failure of fusion; type 2 in which dorsal drainage is dominant in the absence of the duct of Wirsung; and type 3 or incomplete divisum where a small communicating branch is present. [PMID:24265565]
thyroid, ectopic	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
ectopic thyroid	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
lingual thyroids	Ett tillstånd som kännetecknas av förekomst av rudimentär sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Det beror på misslyckad embryonal utveckling och migrering av sköldkörtelvävnad till dess normala plats. Tungsköldkörteln kan vanligtvis inte upprätthålla en tillräcklig hormonproduktion, vilket leder till hypotyreos.
thyroglossal fistula	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
thyrolingual fistula	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
congenital abnormality of the kidney	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
kidney anomaly - congen	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of the kidney	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of the kidney (disorder)	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic kidney	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
kidneys; fusion	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
microcystic renal disease	A congenital renal disorder characterized by the presence of small cysts in the renal cortex and/or renal medulla.
congenital dilated renal pelvis	Collection of urine in the renal pelvis that results in dilatation of the renal pelvis and calyces that is present at birth.
megacalycosis	Isolated enlargement of renal calyces without obstruction.
dilatation of calyx without dilatation of pelvis and ureter	Isolated enlargement of renal calyces without obstruction.
atresia; ureter	A developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen (tube) of the ureter. [HPO:probinson]
congenital urethral valve	The presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra. [HPO:probinson]
congenital urethral valve (disorder)	The presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra. [HPO:probinson]
patent urachus -retired-	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
persistent umbilical sinus (disorder)	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
ovotestis	A gonad that contains both ovarian follicles and testicular tubular elements. [HPO:probinson]
streak of ovary	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
accessory fallopian tube (disorder)	The presence of a supernumerary Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23532389]
anomalies uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital uterine anomaly	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital ut. abnorm.	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital uterine disorder nos	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
bicornuate uterus	The presence of a bicornuate uterus. [HPO:probinson]
unicornuate uterus	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
uterine hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of uterus	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterus; rudimentary	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
vagina; imperforate	Embryologic remnant consisting of a persistent connective tissue membrane within the vaginal vault.
synechia vulvae	Synechia vulvae (adhesions of the labia minora) are characterized by a complete or partial fusion of the labia minora in the midline. [PMID:17364294, PMID:29262197]
xy gonadal agenesis syndrome	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
vanishing testis	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
monorchism	Having only one testis in the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
monorchidism	Having only one testis in the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
polyorchism	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
absence of vas deferens	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
brain malformations	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
brain deformities	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
exencephaly	A congenital abnormality characterized by the extrusion of the brain outside of the skull.
exencephaly (disorder)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the extrusion of the brain outside of the skull.
congenital malformation brain exencephaly	A congenital abnormality characterized by the extrusion of the brain outside of the skull.
exencephaly (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the extrusion of the brain outside of the skull.
exencephalies	A congenital abnormality characterized by the extrusion of the brain outside of the skull.
meningoencephalocele	Herniation of brain and meninges through a cranial opening. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
fewer or absent grooves in brain	A smooth brain malformation of the CEREBRAL CORTEX resulting from the abnormal location of developing neurons during corticogenesis. It is characterized by an absence of normal convoluted indentations on the surface of the brain (agyria), or fewer and shallower indentations (pachygryia). There is a reduced number of cortical layers, typically 4 instead of 6, resulting in a thickened cortex, and reduced cerebral white matter that is a reversal of the normal ratio of cerebral white matter to cortex.
lissencephalies	A smooth brain malformation of the CEREBRAL CORTEX resulting from the abnormal location of developing neurons during corticogenesis. It is characterized by an absence of normal convoluted indentations on the surface of the brain (agyria), or fewer and shallower indentations (pachygryia). There is a reduced number of cortical layers, typically 4 instead of 6, resulting in a thickened cortex, and reduced cerebral white matter that is a reversal of the normal ratio of cerebral white matter to cortex.
neuroepithelial cyst of the third ventricle	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
neuroepithelial cyst	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
third ventricle neuroepithelial cyst	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
pachygyria	Pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1,5-3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm (radiological definition). See also neuropathological definitions for 2-, 3-, and 4-layered lissencephaly. [COST:neuromig, HPO:probinson, PMID:22427329]
macrogyria	Pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1,5-3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm (radiological definition). See also neuropathological definitions for 2-, 3-, and 4-layered lissencephaly. [COST:neuromig, HPO:probinson, PMID:22427329]
schizencephaly	A rare developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of clefs in the cerebral hemispheres. The abnormality may involve one or both cerebral hemispheres. Signs and symptoms include developmental delays, mental retardation, paralysis, presence of a small head, and seizures.
schizencephalic cysts	A rare developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of clefs in the cerebral hemispheres. The abnormality may involve one or both cerebral hemispheres. Signs and symptoms include developmental delays, mental retardation, paralysis, presence of a small head, and seizures.
nasal glial heterotopia (disorder)	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
ectopic glial tissue	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
nasal glial heterotopia	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
grey matter heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
ecchordosis physaliphora (diagnosis)	A very rare, slow growing, usually asymptomatic hamartomatous lesion that arises from ectopic notochordal tissue. Morphologically it is characterized by the presence of typical physaliphorous cells in a myxoid background.
myeloschisis	The severe form of a neural tube defect where the open neural tube appears as a flattened, plate-like mass of nervous tissue with no overlying membrane. [PMID:20885122, UToronto:chum]
myeloschisis (disorder)	The severe form of a neural tube defect where the open neural tube appears as a flattened, plate-like mass of nervous tissue with no overlying membrane. [PMID:20885122, UToronto:chum]
rachischisis	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
rachischisis (diagnosis)	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
rachischisis (disorder)	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
rachischises	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
rachischisis (neural tube birth defect)	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
amyelia (diagnosis)	Congenital absence of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
fetal iritis syndrome	A rare, X-linked recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the NPD gene. It is characterized by developmental retinal abnormalities that result in blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. Additional manifestations include progressive hearing loss and developmental motor skills delays.
axenfeld's anomaly	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly, axenfeld's	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld anomaly	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld anomaly (disorder)	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
degeneration; axenfeld	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld's anomaly (diagnosis)	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld-rieger anomalies	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld; degeneration	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
persistent fetal vasculature	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
remnants of the hyaloid vascular system	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
persistent hyperplasia of primary vitreous	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
congenital eyelid malformation nos	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
developmental anomaly of eyelid	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital malformation of eyelid	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
eyelid; anomaly	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
eyelid malformation, congenital nos	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
anomaly; eyelid	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital eyelid deformity	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital anomaly of eyelid (disorder)	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital eyelid malformation	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital deformities of eyelids	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital drooping upper eyelid	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital ptosis	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
eyelid ptosis congenital	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital ptosis of upper eyelid	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
ablepharon (disorder)	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
accessory eyelid	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
congenital malformation of ear, unspecified	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital ear anomaly nos (disorder)	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
ear anomalies	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of ear, nos	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital ear anomaly nos	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
accessory tragus	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
ear pit	Small indentation anterior to the insertion of the ear. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:19152421]
potter; facies	A facial appearance characteristic of a fetus or neonate due to oligohydramnios experienced in the womb, comprising ocular hypertelorism, low-set ears, receding chin, and flattening of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
potter facies	A facial appearance characteristic of a fetus or neonate due to oligohydramnios experienced in the womb, comprising ocular hypertelorism, low-set ears, receding chin, and flattening of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
potter's facies	A facial appearance characteristic of a fetus or neonate due to oligohydramnios experienced in the womb, comprising ocular hypertelorism, low-set ears, receding chin, and flattening of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of neck nos	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
neck; anomaly	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
branchial; sinus	A congenital branchial sinus is a remnant of the embryonic branchial arches and their intervening clefts and pouches that has failed to regress completely. Sinuses typically have their external orifice inferior to the ramus of the mandible. They may traverse the parotid gland, and run in close vicinity to the facial nerve in the external auditory canal. [HPO:sdoelken]
sinus; branchial	A congenital branchial sinus is a remnant of the embryonic branchial arches and their intervening clefts and pouches that has failed to regress completely. Sinuses typically have their external orifice inferior to the ramus of the mandible. They may traverse the parotid gland, and run in close vicinity to the facial nerve in the external auditory canal. [HPO:sdoelken]
spleniculus	Homogeneous organ, each instance of which is a connected or detached part or enclave of some spleen.
aberrant spleen	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
abnormal spleen location	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
splenogonadal fusion	Joining of the spleen and a gonad during embryological development. [PMID:24137272]
situs inversus thoracis	A congenital condition in which there is complete right-to-left reversal of the position of the thoracic organs.
cyclopia	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
meckel's diverticulitis	Inflammation of a congenital diverticulum of the lower intestine.
steroid 5a-reductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
familial incomplete male pseudohermaphroditism, type 2	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
3-oxo-5 alpha-steroid delta 4-dehydrogenase deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
5 alpha steroid reductase 2 deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
male pseudohermaphroditism due to 5-alpha-reductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
male pseudohermaphroditism due to 5-alpha-reductase deficiency (disorder)	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
familial incomplete male pseudohermaphroditism type 2	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
androgen insensitivity, partial, with or without breast cancer	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
androgen insensitivities, partial	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
epidermolysis bullosa, junctional, non-herlitz type	A subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB) with characteristics of skin and mucosal blistering, nail dystrophy or nail absence and enamel hypoplasia. Postinflammatory hypopigmentation or dyspigmentation may be striking in some patients. A generalised subtype with atrophic scarring and more extensive extracutaneous involvement has been described as well as a milder localised subtype. Caused by mutations in the COL17A1 (10q24.3) and LAMA3 (18q11.2), LAMB3 (1q32) and LAMC2 (1q25-q31) genes. The condition follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
alstrom syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by multiple organ dysfunction. The key clinical features include retinal degeneration (NYSTAGMUS, PATHOLOGIC; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and eventual blindness), childhood obesity, sensorineural hearing loss, and normal mental development. Endocrinologic complications include TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; HYPERINSULINEMIA; ACANTHOSIS NIGRICANS; HYPOTHYROIDISM; and progressive renal and hepatic failures. The disease is caused by mutations in the ALMS1 gene.
alss	Rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by multiple organ dysfunction. The key clinical features include retinal degeneration (NYSTAGMUS, PATHOLOGIC; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and eventual blindness), childhood obesity, sensorineural hearing loss, and normal mental development. Endocrinologic complications include TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; HYPERINSULINEMIA; ACANTHOSIS NIGRICANS; HYPOTHYROIDISM; and progressive renal and hepatic failures. The disease is caused by mutations in the ALMS1 gene.
deficiency of methionine adenosyltransferase	A metabolic disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MAT1A gene. Affected individuals usually do not have clinical abnormalities.
hepatic methionine adenosyltransferase deficiency [ambiguous]	A metabolic disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MAT1A gene. Affected individuals usually do not have clinical abnormalities.
perinatal jaundice due to inspissated bile syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome characterized by persistent jaundice, hemolytic anemia, and hepatomegaly in a newborn. It is characterized by the presence of inspissated bile plugs in the bile ducts.
oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophies	En autosomalt dominant, ärftlig sjukdom som debuterar sent i livet och vars kännetecken är sväljningssvårigheter och tilltagande ögonlocksnedfall. Mutationer i genen för poly(A)-bindande protein II har satts i samband med okulofaryngeal muskeldystrofi.
oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy	En autosomalt dominant, ärftlig sjukdom som debuterar sent i livet och vars kännetecken är sväljningssvårigheter och tilltagande ögonlocksnedfall. Mutationer i genen för poly(A)-bindande protein II har satts i samband med okulofaryngeal muskeldystrofi.
congenital floppy infant	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
hypotonia, infantile	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
goiter, lingual	Sjuklig förstoring av lingual tyreoidea, ektopisk sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Tillståndet kan ge upphov till luftvägshinder, sväljningssvårigheter eller hypertyreossymtom.
congenital lipomatosis of pancreas	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
shwachman's syndrome	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
aplasia; cutis congenita	Localized or widespread congenital absence of skin. The lesions most frequently occur in the scalp, are well demarcated, may be superficial or deep, and are not associated with inflammation.
caudal dysplasia sequence	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by partial or complete absence of the lower portion of the spine.
cryptophthalmos	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
congenital cryptophthalmos	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
globe of eye vestigial	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
cryptophthalmia	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
triploidy	A very rare congenital syndrome characterized by the presence of three haploid sets of chromosomes. The surviving infants have multiple severe birth defects.
triploidy syndrome	A very rare congenital syndrome characterized by the presence of three haploid sets of chromosomes. The surviving infants have multiple severe birth defects.
optic nerve hypoplasia	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
onh - optic nerve hypoplasia	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
hypoplasia of the optic nerve	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
hypoplastic optic nerves	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
ankyloblepharon (physical finding)	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
polymorphous corneal dystrophy (disorder)	This corneal dystrophy affects the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea and is characterized by polymorphous plaques of calcium deposits in the deep stromal layers of the cornea, and occasionally by vesicular lesions of the endothelium and edema of the deep corneal stroma. [HPO:probinson]
posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy	This corneal dystrophy affects the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea and is characterized by polymorphous plaques of calcium deposits in the deep stromal layers of the cornea, and occasionally by vesicular lesions of the endothelium and edema of the deep corneal stroma. [HPO:probinson]
congenital lens anomaly	Any anatomic abnormality or physiologic dysfunction of the lens of the eye that is present at the time of birth.
congenital lens disorder	Any anatomic abnormality or physiologic dysfunction of the lens of the eye that is present at the time of birth.
congenital; deafness	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
congenital deafness	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
bifid epiglottis (disorder)	A midline anterior-posterior cleft of the epiglottis that involves at least two-thirds of the epiglottic leaf. It is a useful feature for clinical diagnosis because it appears to be very rare in syndromes other than Pallister-Hall-Syndrome and is also rare as an isolated malformation. [HPO:curators]
congenital complete atrioventricular block (disorder)	A disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a complete atrioventricular block that manifests during fetal life or soon after birth. It may be isolated or associated with other congenital heart defects. Isolated congenital complete atrioventricular block may be associated with maternal connective tissue disorders.
congenital complete heart block (disorder)	A disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a complete atrioventricular block that manifests during fetal life or soon after birth. It may be isolated or associated with other congenital heart defects. Isolated congenital complete atrioventricular block may be associated with maternal connective tissue disorders.
capillary malformations	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
pulmonary venoocclusive disease 2, autosomal recessive	An autosomal recessive subtype of primary pulmonary hypertension which has histological characteristics of widespread fibrous intimal proliferation of septal veins and preseptal venules. There is frequent association with pulmonary capillary dilatation and proliferation and the disease can cause occult alveolar haemorrhage.
lateral developmental cyst of jaw	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lpc	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral periodontal cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
cyst periodontal lateral	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral developmental cyst of jaw (disorder)	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
periodontal; cyst, lateral	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral periodontal cyst of jaw (diagnosis)	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral developmental jaw cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
periodontal lateral cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
scrotum; cleft	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
bifid; scrotum	Midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
congenital hypothyroidism with ectopic thyroid	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth that is associated with ectopic thyroid tissue located in the neck region.
congenital hypothyroidism with ectopic thyroid (disorder)	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth that is associated with ectopic thyroid tissue located in the neck region.
20,22-desmolase deficiency	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
albinism, ocular, type i	An X-linked inherited disorder caused by mutations in the GPR143 gene. It is characterized by reduced visual acuity and reduced stereoscopic vision. Other abnormalities include nystagmus, strabismus, and photophobia.
benign congenital hypotonia	Mild hypotonia that usually appears early in infancy and has a favorable outcome. It is not a manifestation of another disorder that may cause hypotonia (e.g., cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy).
absent sacrum	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of sacrum	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of eyelid (disorder)	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
underdevelopment of eyelid	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
eyelid; hypoplasia	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
hypoplasia; eyelid	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
congenital blepharophimosis (disorder)	A decrease in size of opening of the eye, not due to eyelid fusion, but rather lateral displacement of the inner canthi
blepharophimosis congenital	A decrease in size of opening of the eye, not due to eyelid fusion, but rather lateral displacement of the inner canthi
congenital; blepharophimosis	A decrease in size of opening of the eye, not due to eyelid fusion, but rather lateral displacement of the inner canthi
congenital blepharophimosis	A decrease in size of opening of the eye, not due to eyelid fusion, but rather lateral displacement of the inner canthi
congenital epiblepharon	Redundant eyelid skin pressing the eyelashes against the cornea and/or conjunctiva. [PMID:19125427]
epiblepharon	Redundant eyelid skin pressing the eyelashes against the cornea and/or conjunctiva. [PMID:19125427]
lens; coloboma	A sectoral indentation of the crystalline lens, usually due to zonular weakness or absence. [HPO:probinson]
keratoglobus	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
cornea enlarged	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
hypoplastic iris	Congenital underdevelopment of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
polycoria	Multiple pupils. [DDD:ncarter]
multiple pupil	Multiple pupils. [DDD:ncarter]
congenital retinal fold (disorder)	An area of the retina that is buckled so that a sector-shaped sheet of retina lies in front of the normal retina. This feature is of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
falciform retinal folds	An area of the retina that is buckled so that a sector-shaped sheet of retina lies in front of the normal retina. This feature is of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
peter's anomaly	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
triloculare; cor	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only three chambers.
abnormal atrioventricular connection	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between atria and ventricles. [DDD:dbrown]
discordant atrioventricular connection	Connection of the right atrium to the left ventricle and of the left atrium to the right ventricle in a biventricular heart. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:23804932]
transposition, congenitally corrected	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
discordant ventriculoarterial connection with discordant atrioventricular connection	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
corrected transposition of great vessels (disorder)	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
l-transposition	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
corrected transposition of great vessels	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
ambiguous atrioventricular connection	With left or right cardiac isomerism in a biventricular, the atrioventricular connections are perforce ambiguous, in that one of the connections is concordant (e.g., right-sided morphologic right atrium connected to a morphologic right ventricle) and one of the connections is discordant (e.g., left-sided morphologic right atrium connected to a morphologic left ventricle). [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
double inlet right ventricle	The condition in which both atria are joined to the right ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually, the left ventricle is hypoplastic. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
double inlet ventricle rv type	The condition in which both atria are joined to the right ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually, the left ventricle is hypoplastic. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
double inlet left ventricle	The condition in which both atria are joined to the left ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually there is a hypoplastic right ventricle, which may be on the opposite side of the heart as usual. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
double inlet left ventricle (disorder)	The condition in which both atria are joined to the left ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually there is a hypoplastic right ventricle, which may be on the opposite side of the heart as usual. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
absent right sided atrioventricular connection	A defect where there is no connection between the right atrium and right ventricle. [PMID:7104116]
absent right sided atrioventricular connexion	A defect where there is no connection between the right atrium and right ventricle. [PMID:7104116]
absent left sided atrioventricular connection (disorder)	A defect where there is no connection between the left atrium and left ventricle. [PMID:7104116]
absent right superior vena cava (disorder)	Absence of the right superior vena cava (RSVC). An absent RSVC is always associated with a persistent left superior vena cava (PLSVC). During normal fetal development, the left-sided anterior venous cardinal system regresses, leaving the coronary sinus (CS) and the ligament of Marshall. Failure of the closure of the left anterior cardinal vein results in PLSVC. In general, PLSVC is associated with the right superior vena cava (RSVC) and drains into the RA via a dilated CS. When developmental arrest occurs at an earlier stage, the CS is absent and the PLSVC drains into the left atrium. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:17578953, PMID:19808620, PMID:20532458]
absent right superior vena cava	Absence of the right superior vena cava (RSVC). An absent RSVC is always associated with a persistent left superior vena cava (PLSVC). During normal fetal development, the left-sided anterior venous cardinal system regresses, leaving the coronary sinus (CS) and the ligament of Marshall. Failure of the closure of the left anterior cardinal vein results in PLSVC. In general, PLSVC is associated with the right superior vena cava (RSVC) and drains into the RA via a dilated CS. When developmental arrest occurs at an earlier stage, the CS is absent and the PLSVC drains into the left atrium. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:17578953, PMID:19808620, PMID:20532458]
persistent left-sided superior vena cava	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
svc duplication	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
bilateral superior vena cava	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
svc duplications	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
bilateral superior caval veins	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
bilateral svc	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
disorder of vein abnormality systemic coronary sinus	An abnormality of the coronary sinus, which is formed by the union of the great cardiac vein and the left marginal vein and terminates in the right atrium. The coronary sinus functions to o collect deoxygenated blood from the myocardium of the heart and drain it into the right atrium. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
portosystemic venous shunt, congenital	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
patent ductus venosus (disorder)	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
patent ductus venosus	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
pdv	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
psvs	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
cor triatriatum dexter	A congenital anomaly with partitioning of the right atrium to form a triatrial heart caused by persistence of the right valve of the sinus venosus. Typically, the right atrial partition is due to exaggerated fetal eustachian and thebesian valves, which together form an incomplete septum across the lower part of the atrium. This septum may range from a reticulum to a substantial sheet of tissue. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:17948095]
abnormality of atrial septum (disorder)	An abnormality of the interatrial septum. [HPO:probinson]
avsd; partial	An ostium primum atrial septal defect is located in the most anterior and inferior aspect of the atrial septum. The ostium primum refers to an anterior and inferior opening (ostium) within the septum primum, which divides the rudimentary atrium during fetal development. The ostium primum is normally sealed by fusion of the superior and inferior endocardial cushions around 5 weeks' gestation. Ostium primum defects result from a failure of the fusion of the embryologic endocardial cushion and septum primum. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
atrioventricular septal defect - isolated atrial component (disorder)	An ostium primum atrial septal defect is located in the most anterior and inferior aspect of the atrial septum. The ostium primum refers to an anterior and inferior opening (ostium) within the septum primum, which divides the rudimentary atrium during fetal development. The ostium primum is normally sealed by fusion of the superior and inferior endocardial cushions around 5 weeks' gestation. Ostium primum defects result from a failure of the fusion of the embryologic endocardial cushion and septum primum. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
rudimentary tricuspid valve leaflets	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
unguarded tricuspid valve orifice	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
absent tricuspid leaflet (diagnosis)	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
absent tricuspid leaflet	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
congenital heart defect malformations tricuspid leaflet absent	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
congenital mitral valve atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
congenital atresia of mitral valve	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
mitral valve atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
tetralogy of fallot with pulmonary stenosis	The commonest form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by pulmonary stenosis, overriding aorta, ventricular septum defect, and right ventricular hypertrophy, without pulmonary atresia, absent pulmonary valve, atrioventricular canal defect or absent subarterial conus. [HPO:probinson]
stenosis; pulmonary, in tetralogy of fallot	The commonest form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by pulmonary stenosis, overriding aorta, ventricular septum defect, and right ventricular hypertrophy, without pulmonary atresia, absent pulmonary valve, atrioventricular canal defect or absent subarterial conus. [HPO:probinson]
tetralogy of fallot with pulmonary atresia (diagnosis)	An extreme form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by absence of flow from the right ventricle to the pulmonary arteries. [ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22368654]
right ventricular abnormality (disorder)	An abnormality of the right ventricle of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
dilated heart right ventricle	Enlargement of the chamber of the right ventricle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17715105]
congenital left ventricular anomaly	Any structural abnormality of the left ventricle of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal left ventricular outflow tract morphology	An abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
lvot - left ventricular outflow tract abnormality	An abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (lvoto)	Obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract. It is caused by aortic valve, supravalvar, or subvalvar defects.
left ventricular outflow tract obstruction	Obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract. It is caused by aortic valve, supravalvar, or subvalvar defects.
right heart syndrome; hypoplasia	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
heart; hypoplasia, right heart (syndrome)	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum	Pulmonary valve atresia not associated with a ventricular septal defect.
pulmonary valve congenital malformation abnormality of cusp bicuspid	The presence of a bicuspid pulmonary valve. [HPO:probinson]
unicuspid aortic valve (diagnosis)	The presence of an aortic valve with one instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [HPO:probinson, PMID:18480095, PMID:20329493]
unicuspid aortic valve	The presence of an aortic valve with one instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [HPO:probinson, PMID:18480095, PMID:20329493]
quadricuspid aortic valve (diagnosis)	The presence of an aortic valve with four instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [PMID:27390747]
quadricuspid aortic valve	The presence of an aortic valve with four instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [PMID:27390747]
pulmonary trunk hypoplasia	Underdeveloped pulmonary arteries.
pulmonary trunk hypoplasia (disorder)	Underdeveloped pulmonary arteries.
hemitruncus to right	The right pulmonary artery originates from the ascending aorta in the presence of a pulmonary valve and main pulmonary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
anomalous origin of left pulmonary artery from ascending aorta	The left pulmonary artery originates from the ascending aorta in the presence of a pulmonary valve and main pulmonary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
aorto-left ventricular tunnels	Aorto-left ventricular tunnel (ALVT) is a congenital extracardiac channel connecting the ascending aorta above the sino-tubular junction to either left ventricular cavity. [PMID:26085759]
aortico-right ventricular tunnel	The presence of an extracardiac channel that connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the right ventricle. [PMID:27525240]
right ventricle to aorta tunnel	The presence of an extracardiac channel that connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the right ventricle. [PMID:27525240]
cervical aortic arch	The aortic arch extends into the soft tissues of the neck before turning down into to become the descending aorta. [DDD:dbrown]
pseudocoarctation of the aorta	Pseudocoarctation is a congenital anomaly of kinking, or buckling, of the aorta without a pressure gradient across the lesion. It is characterized by elongation and kinking of the aorta at the level of the ligamentum arteriosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17593995, PMID:18651460]
type a interrupted aortic arch	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment at the level of the isthmus. [DDD:dbrown]
interrupted aortic arch between left subclavian and left common carotid artery	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
interrupted aortic arch between left common carotid and brachiocephalic artery (disorder)	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the innominate and left carotid arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
type c interrupted aortic arch	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the innominate and left carotid arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
anomalous coronary artery course	An abnormal path of a coronary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
abnormal coronary artery course	An abnormal path of a coronary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital pseudo-obstruction of the small intestine	Abnormal small intestinal contractions, such as spasms and intestinal paralysis related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes. [HPO:probinson]
pseudo-obstruction of the small intestine	Abnormal small intestinal contractions, such as spasms and intestinal paralysis related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes. [HPO:probinson]
congenital atresia of large intestine	A malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the large intestine.
atresia of large intestine (diagnosis)	A malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the large intestine.
atresia of large intestine nos	A malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the large intestine.
low anorectal malformation	Congenital malformations in the anorectal region that include the perineal fistula, anteriorly placed anus, and anorecto-vestibular fistula.
low anorectal malformation (disorder)	Congenital malformations in the anorectal region that include the perineal fistula, anteriorly placed anus, and anorecto-vestibular fistula.
short segment hirschsprung's disease (disorder)	The most common form of Hirschsprung Disease, this is characterized by a lack of nerve cells in the sigmoid colon and rectum. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
short segment hirschsprung disease	The most common form of Hirschsprung Disease, this is characterized by a lack of nerve cells in the sigmoid colon and rectum. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
total intestinal aganglionosis	A complete lack of ganglia in the intestine. This is an extremely severe form of Hirschsprung Disease.
abnormal liver lobulation	Formation of abnormal lobules (small masses of tissue) in the liver. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal liver lobulation (disorder)	Formation of abnormal lobules (small masses of tissue) in the liver. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of vagina	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
underdeveloped vagina	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
hydatid cyst of morgagni	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
penis; duplication	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
bifid penis	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
congenital phimosis	The male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis. [HPO:sdoelken]
phimosis;congenital	The male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis. [HPO:sdoelken]
cake kidney	Ren discoides - ledvina koláčová (ren fungiformis, scutulatus) ledviny jsou srostlé celou mediální plochou ve společný okrouhlý útvar (obě ledviny splynuly v jediný orgán).
urachal fistula	Persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus. [Eurenomics:ewuehl]
hypoplasia involving bones of the lower limbs	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; limb, lower (congenital)	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
underdeveloped vertebrae	Small, underdeveloped vertebral bodies. [HPO:probinson]
accessory ribs (diagnosis)	The presence of more than 12 rib pairs. [HPO:probinson]
carbonic anhydrase ii deficiency	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutation in the CA2 gene. It is characterized by osteopetrosis, renal tubular acidosis, and cerebral calcifications. It results in growth failure, mental retardation, and fractures.
osteopetrosis with renal tubular acidosis	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutation in the CA2 gene. It is characterized by osteopetrosis, renal tubular acidosis, and cerebral calcifications. It results in growth failure, mental retardation, and fractures.
van lohuizen's syndrome	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
ferguson-smith tumour	A rare genetic neoplastic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance characterized by multiple, recurrent skin cancers that spontaneously resolve. It has been described almost exclusively in families of Scottish origin. It is caused by a mutation in the tumor-suppressing gene, TGFBR1, on chromosome 9. Clinical presentation is usually rapidly growing squamous cell carcinomas or keratoacanthomas that primarily localize to sun-exposed areas. Appearance of the neoplasms occurs over several weeks before receding over the course of several months if untreated. The regression of the lesions leaves pitting cicatrices but no other known sequelae.
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome	A hemangioma present at birth. It is characterized by the presence of rubbery skin lesions.
arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (disorder)	A congenital cardiomyopathy that is characterized by infiltration of adipose and fibrous tissue into the RIGHT VENTRICLE wall and loss of myocardial cells. Primary injuries usually are at the free wall of right ventricular and right atria resulting in ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias.
arvd-c	A congenital cardiomyopathy that is characterized by infiltration of adipose and fibrous tissue into the RIGHT VENTRICLE wall and loss of myocardial cells. Primary injuries usually are at the free wall of right ventricular and right atria resulting in ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias.
congenital epulis	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital myoblastoma	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital gingival granular cell tumour	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital epulides	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congen epulides	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congen epulis	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital gingival granular cell tumor (disorder)	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital granular cell tumor	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
both sided cleft lip	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on the left and right sides. [HPO:probinson]
mosaicism	The occurrence of 2 or more cell lines with different genetic or chromosomal make-up, within a single individual or tissue.
craniotabes	Softening of the skull seen in newborns due to incomplete mineralization.
roberts syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
cor triloculare biventriculare	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
supernumerary cusp of tooth	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
mandibular prognathism	Malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar (mesioclusion).
bile duct leakage	The leakage of bile into the abdominal cavity as a result of injury to the bile duct.
cnf	Nephrotic syndrome attributed to mutation(s) in the NPHS1 gene, which encodes the protein nephrin, and most commonly presents during the first three months of life.
nephrotic syndrome, type 1	Nephrotic syndrome attributed to mutation(s) in the NPHS1 gene, which encodes the protein nephrin, and most commonly presents during the first three months of life.
congenital absence of vas deferens	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, autosomal recessive	An autosomal recessive form of ectodermal dysplasia which is due to mutations in the gene for the EDAR RECEPTOR or EDAR-ASSOCIATED DEATH DOMAIN PROTEIN.
aec syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
gapo syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
witkop syndrome	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It is associated with mutations in the MSX-1 gene on chromosome 4 which alter ectodermal morphogenesis. Characteristic clinical signs include absent or poorly-formed dentition and brittle, spoon-shaped finger and toenails. Clinical course features an increased incidence of dental caries but is essentially benign.
epilepsy and yellow teeth	Ameliogenesis imperfecta, mental retardation, and epileptic seizures
olmstead syndrome	A hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma with characteristics of the combination of bilateral mutilating transgredient palmoplantar keratoderma and periorificial keratotic plaques.
palmoplantar keratoderma with leucoplakia	A hereditary syndrome this is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma accompanied by leukoplakia and may be associated with a high lifetime risk of esophageal cancer, as seen in Howel-Evans Syndrome.
palmoplantar keratoderma with leukoplakia	A hereditary syndrome this is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma accompanied by leukoplakia and may be associated with a high lifetime risk of esophageal cancer, as seen in Howel-Evans Syndrome.
rad	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by heterozygous mutation in the DSRAD gene. Most cases have been reported from countries in East Asia. It is characterized by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules on the dorsal aspect of the extremities and face.
dyschromatosis symmetrica hereditaria 1	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by heterozygous mutation in the DSRAD gene. Most cases have been reported from countries in East Asia. It is characterized by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules on the dorsal aspect of the extremities and face.
eccrine angiomatous hamartoma (disorder)	A rare, congenital skin lesion consisting of a proliferation of eccrine glands with a vascular stroma. It presents as a flesh-colored, hyperhidrotic, painful papule or plaque appearing at birth or during childhood.
syringocystadenoma papilliferum	A benign adnexal neoplasm occurring during childhood or adolescence. It usually presents as a papular lesion or a plaque on the head and neck. It may arise in an organoid nevus such as sebaceous. It is characterized by an endophytic invagination of the epithelium into the dermis. There are dermal cystic spaces present, containing villous projections. Complete excision is curative.
moniliform hamartoma	A type of pilosebaceous hamartoma characterized by the development of a linear, flesh colored, fine papular eruption on the head, neck and upper chest after puberty.
fukuyama syndrome	An autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the gene encoding fukutin (FKTN). It is associated with characteristic brain and eye malformations, seizures, and mental retardation.
minicore myopathy, severe classic form	An inherited muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the SEPN1 gene. It is characterized by severe limitation in flexion of the dorsolumbar and cervical spine, due to contracture of the spinal extensors. It leads to loss of movement of the spine and the thoracic cage.
emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy	Heterogenní skupina dědičných svalových dystrofií bez postižení nervového systému. Onemocnění je charakterizované atrofií a slabostí svalů, svalovými kontrakturami v oblasti lokte a podél páteře, zkrácením Achillových šlach a případným kardiálním postižením. Podle typů dědičnosti se vyskytuje několik forem: forma vázaná na X chromozom, forma autozomálně dominantní a forma autozomálně recesivní.
autosomal dominant emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy	Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and caused by mutations in the LMNA gene.
myotubular myopathy 1	An X-linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. Primarily it affects males. Female carriers are usually asymptomatic. It is characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and hypotonia. The muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe. Newborns with severe X-linked centronuclear myopathy develop respiratory distress which may lead to respiratory failure requiring constant ventilator assistance. Patients with mild X-linked centronuclear myopathy usually require ventilator support during the newborn period only.
mtm1	An X-linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. Primarily it affects males. Female carriers are usually asymptomatic. It is characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and hypotonia. The muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe. Newborns with severe X-linked centronuclear myopathy develop respiratory distress which may lead to respiratory failure requiring constant ventilator assistance. Patients with mild X-linked centronuclear myopathy usually require ventilator support during the newborn period only.
distichiasis	Double rows of eyelashes. [HPO:probinson]
close-set eyes	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
ocular hypotelorism	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
congenital hypoplasia of clavicle (disorder)	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
short collarbone	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
lumbar myelocele (disorder)	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
thoracic myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the thoracic region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
cervical myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the cervical region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
lipomeningocele	A form of closed neural tube defect in which the spinal tissue lies within the spinal cord having a junction between the spinal cord and the lipoma. Intact skin covers the defect. Neurologic findings first appear during the second year of life. [UToronto:chum]
congenital spinal anomaly spina bifida lipomeningocele	A form of closed neural tube defect in which the spinal tissue lies within the spinal cord having a junction between the spinal cord and the lipoma. Intact skin covers the defect. Neurologic findings first appear during the second year of life. [UToronto:chum]
lipomeningocele (disorder)	A form of closed neural tube defect in which the spinal tissue lies within the spinal cord having a junction between the spinal cord and the lipoma. Intact skin covers the defect. Neurologic findings first appear during the second year of life. [UToronto:chum]
aprosencephaly	A very rare congenital brain defect in which the cerebral cortex, striatum, globus pallidus, thalamus, hypothalamus, and eyes are absent or rudimentary.
lobar holoprosencephaly (disorder)	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
dysgenesis of corpus callosum	Dysplasia and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum are nonspecific descriptions that imply defective development of the corpus callosum. The term dysplasia is applied when the morphology of the corpus callosum is altered as a congenital trait. For instance, the corpus callosum may be hump-shaped, kinked, or a striped corpus callosum that lacks an anatomically distinct genu and splenium. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
corpus callosum dysgenesis	Dysplasia and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum are nonspecific descriptions that imply defective development of the corpus callosum. The term dysplasia is applied when the morphology of the corpus callosum is altered as a congenital trait. For instance, the corpus callosum may be hump-shaped, kinked, or a striped corpus callosum that lacks an anatomically distinct genu and splenium. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
atrophic corpus callosum	The presence of atrophy (wasting) of the corpus callosum. [HPO:sdoelken]
absence of the septum pellucidum	Absence of the septum pellucidum. [HPO:probinson]
type 1 lissencephaly	A genetic disorder caused by mutations in the LIS1, XLIS, or TUBA1A genes. It results in brain malformation characterized by the underdevelopment or absence of gyri or ridges in the cerebral cortex. Signs and symptoms include epilepsy and mental retardation.
lissencephaly 1	A genetic disorder caused by mutations in the LIS1, XLIS, or TUBA1A genes. It results in brain malformation characterized by the underdevelopment or absence of gyri or ridges in the cerebral cortex. Signs and symptoms include epilepsy and mental retardation.
type ii lissencephaly	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
cobblestone lissencephaly	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
cortical dysplasia	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
dysplasia of cerebral cortex (diagnosis)	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
cortical dysplasia, cerebral	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
colpocephaly (diagnosis)	Colpocephaly is an anatomic finding in the brain manifested by occipital horns that are disproportionately enlarged in comparison with other parts of the lateral ventricles. [PMID:4058748]
colpocephaly (disorder)	Colpocephaly is an anatomic finding in the brain manifested by occipital horns that are disproportionately enlarged in comparison with other parts of the lateral ventricles. [PMID:4058748]
megalencephalies, unilateral	Rare MALFORMATIONS OF CORTICAL DEVELOPMENT, GROUP I characterized by the enlargement of one side of the brain. It is associated with seizures, partial paralysis, and mental retardation.
joubert syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
familial aplasia of the vermis	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
aniridia cerebellar ataxia mental deficiency	A rare congenital neurological disorder with characteristics of the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non-progressive cerebellar ataxia and intellectual disability. Aniridia is visible at birth as fixed dilated pupils. Non-progressive cerebellar ataxia is associated with delayed developmental milestones and hypotonia, gait and balance disorders with incoordination, intention tremor and scanning speech. Sporadic and familial cases have been observed.
gillespie syndrome (disorder)	A rare congenital neurological disorder with characteristics of the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non-progressive cerebellar ataxia and intellectual disability. Aniridia is visible at birth as fixed dilated pupils. Non-progressive cerebellar ataxia is associated with delayed developmental milestones and hypotonia, gait and balance disorders with incoordination, intention tremor and scanning speech. Sporadic and familial cases have been observed.
dysplastic sacrum	A developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum, which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae S1-S5, fail to form or fail to form normally. []
partial sacral agenesis	A developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum, which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae S1-S5, fail to form or fail to form normally. []
ectasia or varix of the vein of galen	Gross dilatation of the vein of Galen, being fed by large anomalous vessel or vessels arising from the carotid or basilar circulation. [UToronto:chum]
monobrow	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
no eyebrows	Absence of the eyebrow. [HPO:probinson]
absent eyebrows	Absence of the eyebrow. [HPO:probinson]
vertical orbital dystopia (diagnosis)	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
vertical orbital dystopia (disorder)	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
misaligned eyes	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
posteriorly rotated ear	A type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation (the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head, and the inferior part of the ears towards the front). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
ears rotated toward back of head	A type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation (the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head, and the inferior part of the ears towards the front). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
double ductus arteriosus	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
bilateral ductus arteriosus (disorder)	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
bilateral ductus arteriosus	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
double ductus arteriosus (disorder)	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
hypoplastic larynx	Underdevelopment of the larynx. [HPO:probinson]
laryngeal hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the larynx. [HPO:probinson]
lingual lobules	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
bumpy tongue	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
lingual hamartomas	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
ectopic liver (disorder)	Ectopic liver is a rare developmental anomaly in which liver tissue is situated outside the liver. Thus, ectopic liver refers to autonomous islands of normal liver parenchyma located outside the liver. The term ectopic liver is also used, to include liver appendices attached to the native liver by a thin stalk although being fully separated from the latter. [HPO:probinson, PMID:11988792, PMID:637502]
ectopic liver	Ectopic liver is a rare developmental anomaly in which liver tissue is situated outside the liver. Thus, ectopic liver refers to autonomous islands of normal liver parenchyma located outside the liver. The term ectopic liver is also used, to include liver appendices attached to the native liver by a thin stalk although being fully separated from the latter. [HPO:probinson, PMID:11988792, PMID:637502]
testicle; nondescent, bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testicle, bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral cryptorchidism	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testes - bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral cryptorchidism (physical finding)	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
udt - undescended testes bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testicle, unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testicle unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
testicle; maldescent unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testis, unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral cryptorchidism	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
cryptorchidism, unilateral (disorder)	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral undescended testis	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
nondescent; testicle, unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
webbed penis (disorder)	Ventral skinfold extending from penis to scrotum. [PMID:23650202]
unilateral renal hypoplasia	One sided hypoplasia of the kidney. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
renal hypoplasia, bilateral	Two sided hypoplasia of the kidney. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type 5 (disorder)	Monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation(s) in the gene HNF1B, encoding hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-beta. In addition to diabetes, this condition may be associated with renal cysts and urogenital anomalies. Homozygous HNF1B mutations result in permanent neonatal diabetes.
unilateral renal dysplasia	A unilateral form of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
dysgenesis; kidney, bilateral	A finding of congenital malformations in both kidneys characterized by the presence of cysts of various sizes, primitive ducts, islands of metaplastic cartilage and undifferentiated mesenchyme, and the absence of cortico-medullary demarcation.
urachal diverticulum (disorder)	A condition in which the urachus fails to close proximal to the bladder, resulting in a non-detrusor, blind-ending pouch at the dome of the bladder.
urachal diverticulum	A condition in which the urachus fails to close proximal to the bladder, resulting in a non-detrusor, blind-ending pouch at the dome of the bladder.
humeral ulnar synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the ulna and the humerus. [HPO:curators]
humeroulnar synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the ulna and the humerus. [HPO:curators]
humeroulnar synostosis (disorder)	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the ulna and the humerus. [HPO:curators]
hemihypertrophy of upper limb	Overgrowth of only one arm. [HPO:probinson]
overgrowth of one arm	Overgrowth of only one arm. [HPO:probinson]
undergrowth of upper limb (disorder)	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of an arm. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity malformation upper limb undergrowth	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of an arm. [HPO:probinson]
carpal synostosis (disorder)	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
carpal bone fusion	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
carpal fusion	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
hitchhiker thumb	With the hand relaxed and the thumb in the plane of the palm, the axis of the thumb forms an angle of at least 90 degrees with the long axis of the hand. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
small thumbs	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplastic thumbs	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplastic thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
undergrowth of the thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
thumb hypoplasia	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplasia of thumb (disorder)	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplasia of thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
undergrowth of the thumb (disorder)	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
congenital malformation of thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
thumb brachydactyly	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hemihypertrophy of lower limb	Overgrowth of only one leg. [HPO:probinson]
congenital overgrowth of lower limb	Overgrowth of only one leg. [HPO:probinson]
hemiatrophy of lower limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
congenital undergrowth of lower limb (diagnosis)	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
congenital undergrowth of lower limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
congenital undergrowth of lower limb (disorder)	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
asymmetric lower limb shortening	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
lower limb; anomaly	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
congenital deformity of lower limb (diagnosis)	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
unspecified congenital anomaly of lower limb	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
limb; anomaly, lower	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
leg; deformity, congenital	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
unspecified anomaly of lower limb	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
congenital deformity of lower limb	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
lobster-claw foot deformity	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
triphalangeal great toe	A hallux (big toe) with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. [PMID:19760621, PMID:22486404]
triphalangeal great toe (disorder)	A hallux (big toe) with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. [PMID:19760621, PMID:22486404]
poorly ossified skull bones	A reduction in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull. [HPO:probinson]
poorly ossified skull	A reduction in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull. [HPO:probinson]
cleft anterior maxilla	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft muscular palate	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
cleft soft palate nos (disorder)	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
cleft soft palate	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
cleft palate (soft)	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
submucous cleft of hard palate	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
cleft palate submucosal hard	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
midline skull joint closes early	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the sagittal suture. [HPO:probinson]
sagittal suture synostosis	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the sagittal suture. [HPO:probinson]
congenital lumbosacral spondylolysis (diagnosis)	A defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch of a lumbar or sacral vertebra that is present at the time of birth.
spondylolysis, congenital, lumbosacral region	A defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch of a lumbar or sacral vertebra that is present at the time of birth.
failure of vertebral segmentation	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
giedion syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
ichthyosis bullous type	An autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis characterized by generalized reddening of the skin (ERYTHEMA) and widespread blistering. The disease shows similar, but somewhat milder, clinical and histopathological findings to those in HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC and is associated with the gene that encodes KERATIN-2A.
ichthyosis bullosa of siemens	An autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis characterized by generalized reddening of the skin (ERYTHEMA) and widespread blistering. The disease shows similar, but somewhat milder, clinical and histopathological findings to those in HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC and is associated with the gene that encodes KERATIN-2A.
pretibial dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	A type of blistering that affects the skin of the tibial region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15265795]
dermatoglyphic abnormalities	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal dermatoglyphics	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
dermatoglyphic; anomaly	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
dermatoglyphic anomalies	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
thoracic deformity hypoplastic nipples	Underdevelopment of the nipple. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic nipples (physical finding)	Underdevelopment of the nipple. [HPO:probinson]
diffuse neurofibroma	A rare neurofibroma with an infiltrative growth pattern. It involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue and grows in a plaque-like fashion. Malignant transformation is rare.
diffuse neurofibroma (disorder)	A rare neurofibroma with an infiltrative growth pattern. It involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue and grows in a plaque-like fashion. Malignant transformation is rare.
shagreen patch	A plaque representing a connective-tissue nevus. Connective tissue naevi are uncommon skin lesions that occur when the deeper layers of the skin do not develop correctly or the components of these layers occur in the wrong proportion. Shagreen patches are oval-shaped and nevoid, skin-colored or occasionally pigmented, smooth or crinkled, The word shagreen refers to a type of roughened untanned leather. [HPO:curators, PMID:10695583]
shagreen patch (disorder)	A plaque representing a connective-tissue nevus. Connective tissue naevi are uncommon skin lesions that occur when the deeper layers of the skin do not develop correctly or the components of these layers occur in the wrong proportion. Shagreen patches are oval-shaped and nevoid, skin-colored or occasionally pigmented, smooth or crinkled, The word shagreen refers to a type of roughened untanned leather. [HPO:curators, PMID:10695583]
fetal methotrexate syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
foetal aminopterin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
trisomy 12	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 12 in somatic cells.
trisomy 11	The presence of a third copy of chromosome 11 in somatic cells.
trisomy 10	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 10 in somatic cells.
trisomy 10 (diagnosis)	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 10 in somatic cells.
trisomy 9	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 9 in somatic cells.
trisomy 8	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 8 in somatic cells.
chromosome 8 duplication	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 8 in somatic cells.
deletion 18p syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the deletion of the short arm of chromosome 18. It is associated with mental and growth retardation, prominent ears and ptosis.
chromosome 18p deletion syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the deletion of the short arm of chromosome 18. It is associated with mental and growth retardation, prominent ears and ptosis.
18q- syndrome	A condition in which some or all of the cells of the body contain extra genetic material from chromosome 18. Clinical features of this condition may include the following: spina bifida, hearing loss, cleft lip, cleft palate, undescended testes, rocker bottom feet, micrognathia, low set ears, cardiac anomalies (ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, tetralogy of Fallot), intellectual disability, holoprosencephaly, pituitary dysplasia, seizures, autoimmune disorders, hip dysplasia, and/or congenital cataracts.
chromosome 18q- syndrome	A condition in which some or all of the cells of the body contain extra genetic material from chromosome 18. Clinical features of this condition may include the following: spina bifida, hearing loss, cleft lip, cleft palate, undescended testes, rocker bottom feet, micrognathia, low set ears, cardiac anomalies (ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, tetralogy of Fallot), intellectual disability, holoprosencephaly, pituitary dysplasia, seizures, autoimmune disorders, hip dysplasia, and/or congenital cataracts.
female with 46 xy karyotype	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XY and who is phenotypically female.
female with 46,xy karyotype	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XY and who is phenotypically female.
male with 46,xx karyotype	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XX and who is phenotypically male.
xx male	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XX and who is phenotypically male.
penoscrotal hypospadias	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
hypospadias, penoscrotal	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
hypospadias; perineal	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8097257]
keratoderma with carcinoma of esophagus	Forma de queratodermia palmoplantar difusa que se produce entre los 5 y los 15 años de edad y que podría asociarse con el desarrollo ulterior de cáncer de esófago
keratoderma with carcinoma of oesophagus	Forma de queratodermia palmoplantar difusa que se produce entre los 5 y los 15 años de edad y que podría asociarse con el desarrollo ulterior de cáncer de esófago
porokeratotic eccrine duct and hair follicle naevus	A rare, congenital disorder of the eccrine sweat ducts that presents as grouped keratotic papules and plaques with a linear distribution and/or multiple punctate pits filled with tiny keratotic plugs resembling comedones. The lesion are usually located on the acral portion of a limb.
ectopic ureterocele	A ureterocele in which some portion of the ureterocele is situated permanently at the bladder neck or in the urethra. The orifice may be situated in the bladder, at the bladder neck, or in the urethra. (Adapted from Glassberg KI, Braren V, Duckett JW, Jacobs EC, King LR, Lebowitz RL et al. Suggested terminology for duplex systems, ectopic ureters and ureteroceles. J Urol 1984; 132(6):1153-1154.)
basaloid follicular hamartoma	A type of pilosebaceous hamartoma characterized by basal cell epitheliomata, epidermoid cysts and comedones, and epidermal atrophy.
congenital malformation of great arteries, unspecified	Defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries. []
anomaly; artery, great	Defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries. []
artery; great, anomaly	Defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries. []
[x]congenital malformation of great arteries, unspecified	Defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries. []
disease (or disorder); nervous system, congenital	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
unspecified congenital anomaly of brain, spinal cord, and nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
nervous system congenital malformations	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital malformations, nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
[x]congenital malformations of the nervous system (disorder)	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
anomaly; nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital nervous system disorder	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
deformity; nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital anomaly neurological	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital malformation of the nervous system	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
maldescent of testicle	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
(testicle: [undescended nos] or [maldescent]) or (retractile testis)	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
(testicle: [undescended nos] or [maldescent]) or (retractile testis) (disorder)	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
congenital arteriovenous malformation of gastrointestinal tract (disorder)	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
congenital arteriovenous malformation of the gastrointestinal tract (disorder)	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
gastrointestinal tract avm/h	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
gastrointestinal tract arteriovenous malformation/hemangioma	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
retinal avm/h	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
retinal arteriovenous malformation/hemangioma	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
retinal arteriovenous malformation (disorder)	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
eyelid colobomata	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
ectopic cilia of eyelid (disorder)	An eyelash that emerges from the underside (conjunctiva) of the upper or lower eyelid. [GOC:MG, http://www.eyecareforanimals.com/animal-eye-conditions/general/251-distichiasis-trichiasis-ectopic-cilia.html]
blue sclera	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
blue sclerae	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
kidney; absence, congenital	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
renal agenesis	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
agenesis; kidney	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
ppkp3	A developmental disorder characterized by keratotic papules of skin of hands and soles with disorganization of dermal elastic fibers that does not appear to be due to trauma or sunlight
disproportions, congenital fiber-type	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
myopathy, congenital, with fiber-type disproportion	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
congenital fiber-type disproportion	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
beaded hair	Rare autosomal dominant disorder of the hair shaft. The clinical features of the disease include HYPOTRICHOSIS, dry, and/or brittle hair, with varying degrees of ALOPECIA. Mutations in the hair-specific keratin genes KRTHB1, KRTHB3, or KRTHB6 are associated with monilethrix. Autosomal recessive monilethrix with limited HYPOTRICHOSIS are also known. Mutations in Dsg4, Liph, and P2ry5 protein genes are associated with the recessive form of monilethrix.
monilethrix	Rare autosomal dominant disorder of the hair shaft. The clinical features of the disease include HYPOTRICHOSIS, dry, and/or brittle hair, with varying degrees of ALOPECIA. Mutations in the hair-specific keratin genes KRTHB1, KRTHB3, or KRTHB6 are associated with monilethrix. Autosomal recessive monilethrix with limited HYPOTRICHOSIS are also known. Mutations in Dsg4, Liph, and P2ry5 protein genes are associated with the recessive form of monilethrix.
cornea posterior embryotoxon (physical finding)	A posterior embryotoxon is the presence of a prominent and anteriorly displaced line of Schwalbe. [HPO:probinson]
preauricular fistula	A pit or dimple in front of the ear of a newborn is a common finding; rarely, such a dimple may get infected, which will be manifested with redness and swelling and will require medical attention.
imperforate rectum nos	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
atresia of the rectum	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
rectal atresia	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
pulmonic stenosis with cafe-au-lait spots	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
cafe-au-lait spots with pulmonic stenosis	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
cafe-au-lait macules with pulmonary stenosis	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
café-au-lait macules with pulmonary stenosis	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
watson syndrome	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
watson's syndrome (disorder)	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
sacralization of fifth lumbar vertebra (disorder)	A congenital anomaly, in which the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra (L5) fuses to the sacrum on one side or both, or to ilium, or both. [UToronto:bgallinger]
epispadias - male	Displacement of the urethral opening on the dorsal (superior) surface of the penis. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
penile epispadias	Displacement of the urethral opening on the dorsal (superior) surface of the penis. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
duodenal web	Partial or complete obstruction of the duodenal lumen due to the presence of a membranous web.
absent spleen	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
incomplete ossification of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
short radius	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
short; radius, congenital	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
camptodactyly congenital	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
thoracoceloschisis	Fissure of thoracic and abdominal walls with thoracic and abdominal viscera, or major parts thereof, exposed ventrally. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
congenital thoracogastroschisis	Fissure of thoracic and abdominal walls with thoracic and abdominal viscera, or major parts thereof, exposed ventrally. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
thoracoceloschisis (disorder)	Fissure of thoracic and abdominal walls with thoracic and abdominal viscera, or major parts thereof, exposed ventrally. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
thoracoschisis (disorder)	A congenital fissure of the thoracic wall.
ischium; anomaly	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of ischium (disorder)	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
reduced ossification of pubis	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the pubic bone. []
lung segmentation defects	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
obsolete lung segmentation defects	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of mandible	Absence of the mandible. [HPO:curators]
mandibular cleft	Midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues. [PMID:19125436]
cleft mandible	Midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues. [PMID:19125436]
prosoposchisis	A congenital anatomic defect characterised by a facial cleft that extends from the mouth to the orbit of the eye.
facial clefts	A congenital malformation with a cleft (gap or opening) in the face. [HPO:probinson]
anogenital distance increased	An indication that the anogenital distance is greater than the norm.
congenital small ovary	Developmental hypoplasia of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
congenital spinal anomaly spina bifida rachischisis holorachischisis	Fissure of the entire spinal column. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
holorachischisis	Fissure of the entire spinal column. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
rachischisis totalis	Fissure of the entire spinal column. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
microblepharism	Abnormal shortness of the vertical dimensions of the eyelids. [http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/microblepharia]
nephronophthisis	Presence of cysts at the corticomedullary junction of the kidney in combination with tubulointerstitial fibrosis. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
nystagmus (& [congenital])	Nystagmus, který nastává při kongenitálních poruchách n. II., sítnice, popř. u vrozené slepoty. Je při něm n. kyvadlový s bifazickým nebo monofázickým rytmem. Funkce vestibulárního aparátu je neporušená. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2013 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
acranias	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
acraniate monster, nos	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
acrania (disorder)	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
acrania	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
talipes cavus	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
upper extremity deformities, congenital	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
congenital deformity of an upper limb	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
congenital deformity of upper limb (diagnosis)	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
anomaly; arm	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
chiari type i malformation	Arnold-Chiari type I malformation refers to a relatively mild degree of herniation of the posteroinferior region of the cerebellum (the cerebellar tonsils) into the cervical canal with little or no displacement of the fourth ventricle. [HPO:curators]
distal muscular dystrophy	En heterogen grupp genetiska sjukdomar som kännetecknas av fortskridande muskelatrofi och muskelsvaghet, med början i händerna, benen eller fötterna. De flesta är autosomalt dominanta former som debuterar vid vuxen ålder. Andra är autosomalt recessiva.
ccd	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
central nervous system vascular malformation	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
congenital omphalocele	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
unspecified omphalocele (disorder)	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
jacobsen syndrome	A clinically recognized congenital malformation condition caused by a distal 11q deletion. The features of the syndrome are growth retardation, psychomotor retardation, trigonocephaly, divergent intermittent strabismus, epicanthus, telecanthus, broad nasal bridge, short nose with anteverted nostrils, carp-shaped upper lip, retrognathia, low-set dysmorphic ears, bilateral camptodactyly, and hammertoes. Platelet dysfunction is a feature in Paris-Trousseau type thrombocytopenia.
peters-plus syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
lissencephaly syndrome norman roberts type	Lissencephaly syndrome, Norman-Roberts type is the association of lissencephaly type I with craniofacial anomalies (severe microcephaly, a low sloping forehead, a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes) and postnatal growth retardation. Severe intellectual deficit, spasticity and epilepsy are also present. Mutations in the RELN gene (7q22) have been identified in some patients. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
mental retardation, congenital heart disease, blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis, and hypoplastic teeth	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
intellectual disability, congential heart disease, blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis, and hypoplastic teeth (diagnosis)	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
intellectual disability, congenital heart disease, blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis and hypoplastic teeth	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
ohdo madokoro sonoda syndrome	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
intellectual disability, congential heart disease, blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis, and hypoplastic teeth	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
ohdo blepharophimosis syndrome	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
mental retardation, congenital heart disease, blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis and hypoplastic teeth	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
mental retardation, congenital heart disease, blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis and hypoplastic teeth (disorder)	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
intellectual disability, congenital heart disease, blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis and hypoplastic teeth (disorder)	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
pettigrew syndrome	A rare, X-linked inherited syndrome characterized by mental retardation and additional features, which include choreoathetosis, hydrocephalus, Dandy-Walker malformation, seizures, and iron or calcium deposition in the brain.
becker muscular dystrophy	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
becker's muscular dystrophy	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
arteriovenous malformation, cerebral	An anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the brain. []
porokeratosis 1, multiple types	A clonal disorder of keratinization with one or multiple atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella. [HPO:skoehler]
denys-drash syndrome	Ett sällsynt syndrom, kännetecknat av urogenitala missbildningar, pseudohermafroditism och Wilms tumör (nefroblastom).
drash syndrome	Ett sällsynt syndrom, kännetecknat av urogenitala missbildningar, pseudohermafroditism och Wilms tumör (nefroblastom).
diplomyelia	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
duplication; spinal cord	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
duplication of spinal cord	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
spinal cord; duplication	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
anorchism	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
male agonadism	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of both testes (disorder)	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of both testes	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of larynx (diagnosis)	A congenital deformity in which there is no laryngeal structure.
absence or agenesis of trachea	Congenital absence of the trachea.
muscular dystrophy, congenital, merosin-deficient 1a	An autosomal recessive inherited congenital muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the LAMA2 gene. It is characterized by severe hypotonia, muscle weakness, elevated levels of serum creatinine kinase, and white matter abnormalities.
syringofibroadenoma (morphologic abnormality)	A rare, benign eccrine neoplasm usually arising on acral areas as a solitary papular or nodular lesion. Multiple lesions are referred as syringofibroadenomatosis. It is characterized by the presence of epithelial cuboidal cells forming anastomosing cords in a fibrovascular stroma.
acps ii	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
acrocephalopolysyndactyly type ii	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
l-tga	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
l - transposition of the great vessels (disorder)	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
levotransposition	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
l - transposition of the great vessels	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
dextrotransposition	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
complete transposition of great vessels with dextrorotation	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
dextro-transposition of the great arteries	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
d - transposition of the great vessels	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
d - transposition of the great vessels (disorder)	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
congenital partial portasystemic shunt	Congenital portal-systemic shunt in which at least some portal blood perfuses the liver
micropapilla	Congenital small optic disc with normal visual function
pseudohypoplasia of the optic nerve	Congenital small optic disc with normal visual function
micropapilla (disorder)	Congenital small optic disc with normal visual function
residual; cyst	Cysta, která zůstává v čelisti poté, co extrahujeme zub, na jehož kořeni se cysta vyvinula. Cysta se může zvětšovat bez přítomnosti zubu. Je to zvláštní forma radikulární cysty.
residual cyst	Cysta, která zůstává v čelisti poté, co extrahujeme zub, na jehož kořeni se cysta vyvinula. Cysta se může zvětšovat bez přítomnosti zubu. Je to zvláštní forma radikulární cysty.
residual cyst (disorder)	Cysta, která zůstává v čelisti poté, co extrahujeme zub, na jehož kořeni se cysta vyvinula. Cysta se může zvětšovat bez přítomnosti zubu. Je to zvláštní forma radikulární cysty.
hypoplastic optic disc	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
optic disc hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of the optic disc	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of optic disc (disorder)	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic optic discs	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
transitional vertebra	Una anomalía congénita de una vértebra en la cual presenta características de una estructura o región adyacente.
transitional vertebrae	Una anomalía congénita de una vértebra en la cual presenta características de una estructura o región adyacente.
mittendorf's dot (disorder)	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
talipes	A deformity of foot and ankle that has different subtypes that are talipes equinovarus, talipes equinovalgus, talipes calcaneovarus and talipes calcaneovalgus. [HPO:sdoelken]
talipes, nos	A deformity of foot and ankle that has different subtypes that are talipes equinovarus, talipes equinovalgus, talipes calcaneovarus and talipes calcaneovalgus. [HPO:sdoelken]
tetralogy of fallot with absent pulmonary valve syndrome	Features of tetralogy of Fallot with either rudimentary ridges or the complete absence of pulmonic valve tissue. [DDD:dbrown]
cfeom	Congenital non-progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions. Typically, there is ptosis and variable degrees of restriction of horizontal and vertical eye movements. [HPO:probinson]
congenital fibrosis syndrome	Congenital non-progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions. Typically, there is ptosis and variable degrees of restriction of horizontal and vertical eye movements. [HPO:probinson]
congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles	Congenital non-progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions. Typically, there is ptosis and variable degrees of restriction of horizontal and vertical eye movements. [HPO:probinson]
euryblepharon	Euryblepharon is a congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure. The eyelid is shortened vertically compared with the horizontal dimension, with associated lateral canthal malpositioning and lateral ectropion abnormally wide lid opening. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15249382, PMID:15530943, PMID:24719364]
euryblepharon (physical finding)	Euryblepharon is a congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure. The eyelid is shortened vertically compared with the horizontal dimension, with associated lateral canthal malpositioning and lateral ectropion abnormally wide lid opening. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15249382, PMID:15530943, PMID:24719364]
congenital microcoria	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
pinhole pupils	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
overbite	A malocclusion in which maxillary incisor and canine teeth project over the mandibular teeth excessively. The overlap is measured perpendicular to the occlusal plane and is also called vertical overlap. When the overlap is measured parallel to the occlusal plane it is referred to as overjet.
facial asymmetry	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
compression facies	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
face; asymmetry	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetry, facial	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
unbalanced face	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetries, facial	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
compression facies (finding)	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
infantile malignant osteopetrosis	A rare congenital disorder of bone resorption characterised by generalised skeletal densification. Bone marrow failure, fractures and visual impairment are the classical features of the disease, which begins in early infancy or in fetal life. It results from the failure of osteoclasts to resorb immature bone. This leads to abnormal bone marrow cavity formation and to the clinical signs and symptoms of bone marrow failure. It is accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly due to compensatory extramedullary hematopoiesis. The disease is heterogeneous. Over 50% of cases are due to mutations in the TCIRG1 gene and another 10% are due to mutations in the CLCN7 gene. A small number of patients have been described with mutations in the OSTM1 gene. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
autosomal recessive lethal osteopetrosis	A rare congenital disorder of bone resorption characterised by generalised skeletal densification. Bone marrow failure, fractures and visual impairment are the classical features of the disease, which begins in early infancy or in fetal life. It results from the failure of osteoclasts to resorb immature bone. This leads to abnormal bone marrow cavity formation and to the clinical signs and symptoms of bone marrow failure. It is accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly due to compensatory extramedullary hematopoiesis. The disease is heterogeneous. Over 50% of cases are due to mutations in the TCIRG1 gene and another 10% are due to mutations in the CLCN7 gene. A small number of patients have been described with mutations in the OSTM1 gene. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
congenital melanocytic nevus of skin (disorder)	A melanocytic nevus that is present at birth. It may present as a small macular, papular, or plaque-like lesion or as a large brown to black hairy skin lesion.
laryngoonychocutaneous syndrome	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
sertoli cell only syndrome	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
scos	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
congenital absence of germinal epithelium of testes (disorder)	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
anomalies of genital organs absence of germinal epithelium of testes	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
sertoli cell-only syndrome	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
artery; single umbilical	Congenital abnormality where one, instead of the usual two, UMBILICAL ARTERY connects the fetus to the placenta.
two-vessel cord	Congenital abnormality where one, instead of the usual two, UMBILICAL ARTERY connects the fetus to the placenta.
hypospadias; coronal	A mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; epiglottis	Hypoplasia of the epiglottis. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic epiglottis	Hypoplasia of the epiglottis. [HPO:probinson]
shovel-shaped incisor	Incisor that has marked lateral borders occurring lingually.
chromosomal duplications	An aberration in which an extra chromosome or a chromosomal segment is made.
bonnevie-ullrich syndrome	Souhrnný název pro vrozené syndromy s pterygium colli, např. Turnerův syndrom, syndrom Noonanové aj. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
bonnevie ullrich syndrome	Souhrnný název pro vrozené syndromy s pterygium colli, např. Turnerův syndrom, syndrom Noonanové aj. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
berdon syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
berdon's syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
mmihs	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
megacystis microcolon intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
megacystis-microcolon-intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
megacystis, microcolon, hypoperistalsis syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
mmih syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
megacystis, microcolon, intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
hypospadias, penile (disorder)	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
hypospadias (diagnosis)	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
hypospadias of penis	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
cornelia de lange syndrome 2	An X-linked inherited form of Cornelia De Lange syndrome caused by mutations in the SMC1A gene mapped to chromosome Xp11.22. Patients have a milder form of the syndrome compared to patients with the NIPBL gene mutation.
lambdoid craniosynostosis	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture. [HPO:probinson]
lambdoid synostosis	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture. [HPO:probinson]
posterior plagiocephaly, synostotic	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture. [HPO:probinson]
laryngeal cleft	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
congenital cleft larynx	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
congenital fissure of larynx (disorder)	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
fissure; larynx, congenital	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
goniodysgenesis with intellectual disability and short stature syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare syndrome involving goniodysgenesis, intellectual disability and short stature in addition to microcephaly, short nose, small hands and ears, and that has been seen in one family to date. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
pigmented moles	A rare melanocytic lesion occurring at birth, comprising at least 5% of the body surface area. It usually presents as a dark brown to black hairy lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of a compound or intradermal nevus. There is an increased risk of malignant transformation to melanoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and poorly differentiated malignant tumors.
chromosome 1p36 deletion syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by the deletion of the distal band on the short arm of chromosome 1. It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance (microcephaly, deep set eyes, flat nose, and pointed chin), developmental abnormalities, mental retardation, seizures, hypotonia, hearing loss, and heart defects.
otopalatodigital syndrome, type ii	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
congenital bilateral perisylvian syndrome (disorder)	A type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that affects both sides of the brain. [COST:neuromig, PMID:20301504]
lisx2	A severe neurological disorder that only manifests in genotypic males and includes lissencephaly with posterior-to-anterior gradient and only moderate increase in thickness of the cortex, absent corpus callosum, neonatal-onset severe epilepsy, hypothalamic dysfunction including defective temperature regulation, and ambiguous genitalia with micropenis and cryptorchidism.
xp-e	An autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the DDB2 gene. This disease exhibits the mildest degree of sun sensitivity of all xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups, although individuals are at high risk for skin cancer.
xp5	An autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the DDB2 gene. This disease exhibits the mildest degree of sun sensitivity of all xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups, although individuals are at high risk for skin cancer.
dandy-walker malformation with postaxial polydactyly syndrome	A syndromic disorder with the association between Dandy-Walker malformation and postaxial polydactyly as a major feature. The Dandy-Walker malformation has a variable expression and characteristics of a posterior fossa cyst communicating with the fourth ventricle, the partial or complete absence of the cerebellar vermis, and facultative hydrocephalus. Postaxial polydactyly includes tetramelic postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet with possible enlargement of the fifth metacarpal and metatarsal bones, as well as bifid fifth metacarpals.
complex of anomalies involving the cranium and brain	Characterized by frontal encephalocele, craniosynostosis, and developmental delay.
irido-corneal dysgenesis (disorder)	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
say-barber-biesecker-young-simpson variant of ohdo syndrome	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
blepharophimosis-mental retardation syndrome, say-barber-biesecker-young-simpson type	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
congenital transposition of the penis	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the partial or complete transposition of the penis and scrotum. In cases of complete penoscrotal transposition, the scrotum is positioned anteriorly and above the penis. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
agyria	A congenital abnormality of the cerebral hemisphere characterized by lack of gyrations (convolutions) of the cerebral cortex. Agyria is defined as cortical regions lacking gyration with sulci great than 3 cm apart and cerebral cortex thicker than 5 mm. [COST:neuromig]
syndrome; chromosome, 4 short arm deletion	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
wolf-hirschhorn syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
double outlet right ventricle, noncommitted vsd	A subtype with ventricular septal defect clearly away from the semilunar valves of the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY.
double outlet right ventricle with noncommitted ventricular septal defect (disorder)	A subtype with ventricular septal defect clearly away from the semilunar valves of the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY.
hidden ear	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
cryptotia was noted	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
microgyria (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of abnormally small convolutions in the brain. It results in mental retardation.
xeroderma pigmentosum, complementation group c	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the XPC gene. This disease is characterized by increased sensitivity to sunlight with the development of carcinomas at an early age and is caused by a defect in nucleotide excision repair.
xeroderma pigmentosum iii	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the XPC gene. This disease is characterized by increased sensitivity to sunlight with the development of carcinomas at an early age and is caused by a defect in nucleotide excision repair.
cecoureterocele	A ureterocele in which the orifice is located in the bladder, with the ureterocele pouch extending submucosally into the urethra.
isolation of left subclavian artery (disorder)	The loss of continuity between the left subclavian artery and the aorta, with persistent connection to the homolateral pulmonary artery through the patent (PDA) or nonpatent ductus arteriosus. [MP:0011745]
humeral-radial synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
humeroradial synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
pseudohermaphroditism with intellectual disability syndrome	A rare association of malformations described in only three patients including two siblings. The first patient had profound intellectual deficit and clinical features including short stature, coarse face, deep-set eyes, microphthalmia, large ears, gynoid obesity, imperforate anus, sacral spina bifida, pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias, persistence of Mullerian structures, and low gonadotrophin levels. His XY sibling was raised as a girl, was slightly mentally impaired and had microphthalmia and large ears and short stature. The third patient had severe hearing loss, ocular colobomata, hypogonadism of central origin, distinct craniofacial features and skeletal anomalies with cervical spina bifida, hyperkyphosis and thoracic deformity. All patients had a normal 46, XY karyotype. Inheritance could be either autosomal recessive or X-linked.
volcke soekarman syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of macrocephaly and midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit, short stature, spastic paraplegia and severe central nervous system anomalies (hydrocephalus and Dandy-Walker malformation). It has been described in two unrelated adults.
syndrome, xxyy	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has an extra X and Y chromosome.
xxyy syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has an extra X and Y chromosome.
focal facial dermal dysplasia	Focal facial dermal dysplasias (FFDD) are rare ectodermal dysplasias, with characteristics of congenital bitemporal (resembling forceps marks) or preauricular scar-like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations. Four types of FFDD are described. Types II and III present with a variable facial dysmorphism including distichiasis (upper lashes) or lacking eyelashes, and upward slanting and thinned lateral eyebrows with a flattened nasal bridge and full upper lip. Types I and IV are infrequently associated with extra-cutaneous anomalies.
ectodermal dysplasia, facial	Focal facial dermal dysplasias (FFDD) are rare ectodermal dysplasias, with characteristics of congenital bitemporal (resembling forceps marks) or preauricular scar-like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations. Four types of FFDD are described. Types II and III present with a variable facial dysmorphism including distichiasis (upper lashes) or lacking eyelashes, and upward slanting and thinned lateral eyebrows with a flattened nasal bridge and full upper lip. Types I and IV are infrequently associated with extra-cutaneous anomalies.
malformation venous	A vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover. A venous malformation may present as a blue patch on the skin ranging to a soft blue mass. Venous malformations are easily compressible and usually swell in thewhen venous pressure increases (e.g., when held in a dependent position or when a child cries). They may be relatively localized or quite extensive within an anatomic region. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of vein (diagnosis)	A vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover. A venous malformation may present as a blue patch on the skin ranging to a soft blue mass. Venous malformations are easily compressible and usually swell in thewhen venous pressure increases (e.g., when held in a dependent position or when a child cries). They may be relatively localized or quite extensive within an anatomic region. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal ventriculo-arterial connection	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between the ventricles and the pulmonary artery and aorta. [PMID:15227248, PMID:18805185, PMID:24750982]
abnormal ventriculoarterial connection	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between the ventricles and the pulmonary artery and aorta. [PMID:15227248, PMID:18805185, PMID:24750982]
abnormal ventriculoarterial connexion	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between the ventricles and the pulmonary artery and aorta. [PMID:15227248, PMID:18805185, PMID:24750982]
abnormal atrial arrangement	Abnormality of the spatial relationship of the atria to other components of the heart. [DDD:dbrown]
cleft hard palate with cleft soft palate	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
cleft; palate, soft with hard	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
anterior chamber anomalies	Abnormality of the anterior chamber, which is the space in the eye that is behind the cornea and in front of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral trilobed lungs	Both lungs have three lobes. Normally, the left lung has two lobes, whereas the right lung has three lobes. [HPO:probinson]
atrial situs ambiguus	Common atrium without defining morphologic features. [DDD:dbrown]
dorv with doubly committed vsd and pulmonary stenosis	A double outlet right ventricle with a subaortic ventritricular septal defect (a hole between the two bottom chambers (ventricles) of the heart), that extends anterosuperiorly and are closely related to the pulmonary artery as well, are considered to be doubly committed. There is associated pulmonary stenosis, the abnormal narrowing or constriction of the pulmonary artery, in the main pulmonary artery and/or in the left or right pulmonary artery branches. [PMID:6193702]
xyy trisomy	genetic disorder that produces tall and in many cases disturbed behavioral males due to XYY karyotype.
hemifacial microsomia	<p>Hemifacial microsomia</p>
hemifacial microsomia (disorder)	<p>Hemifacial microsomia</p>
hemifacial microsomia (diagnosis)	<p>Hemifacial microsomia</p>
anorectal anomaly	An abnormality of the anus or rectum. [HPO:probinson]
anorectal malformation	An abnormality of the anus or rectum. [HPO:probinson]
anorectal anomaly, nos	An abnormality of the anus or rectum. [HPO:probinson]
congenital nephrotic syndrome	Nephrotic syndrome with onset within the first three months of life. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
congenital nephrotic syndrome nos	Nephrotic syndrome with onset within the first three months of life. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
d-tga	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the right of the pulmonary artery. This is the most common kind of TGA. [PMID:25082585]
dysplasia of kidney nos (disorder)	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
dysplastic kidney	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
lumbar meningomyelocele	A congenital abnormality in the lumbar region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
thoracic meningomyelocele	A congenital abnormality in the thoracic region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
cervical meningomyelocele (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in the cervical region of the spine in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
cervical meningomyelocele	A congenital abnormality in the cervical region of the spine in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
discordant ventriculoarterial connection	A rare congenital cardiovascular abnormality in which the aorta arises from the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery arises from the left ventricle.
congenital cvs anomaly nos (disorder)	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
congenital abnormality of the circulatory system	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
enamel hypomineralisation	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
chromosome 16p11.2 deletion syndrome	A microdeletion at 16p11.2, characterized by a predisposition to obesity, developmental delay and autism spectrum disorders.
oculoskeletal dysplasia	An inherited syndrome of skeletal and retinal malformations with early blindness as well as cataracts and retinal detachment.
complex craniosynostosis (disorder)	Nonsyndromic premature fusion of multiple sutures.
simple craniosynostosis	Nonsyndromic premature fusion of a single suture.
unna-thost syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
thost-unna keratoderma	An autosomally dominant inherited form of palmoplantar keratoderma that is characterized by a non-gradient diffuse pattern and often, hyperhidrosis of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It does not extend beyond the palms, knucklels pads, nails, and the soles.
lissencephaly co-occurrent with congenital cerebellar hypoplasia type f (disorder)	A severe form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia with main features microcephaly of at least 3 standard deviations and a thick cortex associated with complete absence of the corpus callosum.
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type d	A form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia with main features of pronounced microcephaly, intellectual disability, spastic diplegia and moderate to severe cerebellar hypoplasia involving both vermis and hemispheres.
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type c	A severe form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia with main features of severe microcephaly, cleft palate, and severe cerebellar and brainstem hypoplasia leading to neonatal death.
lissencephaly co-occurrent with congenital cerebellar hypoplasia type b	A form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia with main features of subtle microcephaly, hypotonia and neurological and cognitive development delay. Hippocampal malformation is a characteristic feature on imaging.
lissencephaly type 1 due to doublecortin gene mutation	A semi-dominant X-linked disease with intellectual deficiency and seizures that is more severe in male patients. Boys presenting with lissencephaly show an abnormally thick cortex with very few gyri (pachygyria) or even none (agyria). Clinical manifestations include swallowing and feeding difficulties, abnormal muscular tone, seizures and severe to profound psychomotor retardation. Female patients display a less severe malformation referred to as ''doublecortex'' or subcortical laminar heterotopia and present with clinical signs of variable severity ranging from mild epilepsy to refractory epileptic seizures and severe intellectual deficiency. The condition is caused by doublecortin (DCX, located at Xq22.3-q23) gene mutations.
isolated lissencephaly type 1 without known genetic defect	A diagnosis of exclusion, when neither associated malformations nor family history are present, and in the absence of mutations of genes known to be involved in classic lissencephaly. Clinically patients present with the common features of classic lissencephaly such as developmental delay, intellectual disability, and seizures.
craniosynostosis with dandy-walker malformation and hydrocephalus syndrome	A malformation disorder with characteristics of sagittal craniosynostosis, Dandy-Walker malformation, hydrocephalus, craniofacial dysmorphism (including dolichocephaly, hypertelorism, micrognathia, positional ear deformity) and variable developmental delay. The inheritance pattern appears to be autosomal dominant.
lissencephaly due to tuba1a (tubulin alpha 1a) mutation	A congenital cortical development anomaly due to abnormal neuronal migration involving neocortical and hippocampal lamination, corpus callosum, cerebellum and brainstem. A large clinical spectrum can be observed, from children with severe epilepsy and intellectual and motor deficit to cases with severe cerebral dysgenesis in the antenatal period leading to pregnancy termination due to the severity of the prognosis.
lissencephaly type 3 metacarpal bone dysplasia syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe microcephaly, agyria, agenesis of the corpus callosum, cerebellar hypoplasia, facial dysmorphism and epiphyseal stippling of the metacarpal bones. It has been described in two brothers. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and may be an allelic variant of Neu-Laxova syndrome and Lissencephaly type III with cystic dilations of the cerebellum and fetal akinesia sequence.
lissencephaly type 3 familial fetal akinesia sequence syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of microencephaly, agenesis of the corpus callosum, brainstem hypoplasia, cystic cerebellum and fetal akinesia sequence. Less than 10 cases have been described so far. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and may be an allelic variant of Neu-Laxova syndrome and lissencephaly type III with metacarpal bone dysplasia.
microlissencephaly micromelia syndrome	A syndrome of abnormal cortical development with characteristics of severe prenatal polyhydramnios, postnatal microcephaly, lissencephaly, upper limb micromelia, dysmorphic facies (coarse face, hypertrichosis, and short nose with long philtrum), intractable seizures, and early death. Hypoparathyroidism was noted in one case.
spinal muscular atrophy, dandy-walker malformation, cataract syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of infantile symmetrical distal muscle weakness and atrophy of the lower limbs, bilateral anterior polar cataracts and Dandy-Walker malformation. It has been described in two brothers. No sensorineural or cognitive deficits were observed. The karyotypes of the two patients were normal. No mutations were found in the survival motor neurone (SMN), neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (NAIP) or androgen receptor genes.
facial dysmorphism, macrocephaly, myopia, dandy-walker malformation syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of Dandy-Walker malformation, severe intellectual deficit, macrocephaly, brachytelephalangy, facial dysmorphism and severe myopia. Three cases have been described. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
congenital absence of penis (disorder)	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
aphallia	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
myelocystocele	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
myelocystocele nos (disorder)	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
myelocystocele of unspecified site	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
congenital spinal anomaly spina bifida myelocystocele	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
myelocystocele nos	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
myelocystocele of unspecified site (disorder)	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
myelocystocele (diagnosis)	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
allantoic cyst	An umbilical cyst that arises from allantoic tissue that did not regress during gestational development. Most cases involve a patent urachus that allows for communication to the urinary bladder.
total anomalous pulmonary venous return	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
connection; pulmonary veins, anomaly, total	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
total anomalous pulmonary venous return (diagnosis)	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
sebaceous nevus syndrome, linear	Síndrome caracterizada por lesões na face, couro cabeludo ou pescoço, consistindo de malformações hipoplásicas congênitas de estruturas cutâneas que, com o tempo, originam hiperplasia verrucosa. Além disso, está associado com sintomas neurológicos e anomalias esqueléticas, oftalmológicas, urogenitais e cardiovasculares.
linear sebaceous nevus sequence	Síndrome caracterizada por lesões na face, couro cabeludo ou pescoço, consistindo de malformações hipoplásicas congênitas de estruturas cutâneas que, com o tempo, originam hiperplasia verrucosa. Além disso, está associado com sintomas neurológicos e anomalias esqueléticas, oftalmológicas, urogenitais e cardiovasculares.
cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal syndrome (disorder)	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
camak - cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal syndrome	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
angiomatous nevus	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
vascular hamartomas (disorder)	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
vascular hamartoma	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
enamel agenesis	Una forma de amelogénesis imperfecta caracterizada por formación incompleta del esmalte dental y transmitida como rasgo autosómico dominante o ligado al cromosoma X.
congenital (qualifier value)	Denoting something that is present at birth.
tissues, aberrant	A mass of histologically normal tissue present in an abnormal location.
grey matter heterotopias	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
congenital contracture (morphologic abnormality)	One or more flexion contractures (a bent joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively) that are present at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital incomplete closure, nos	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
patent embryonic structure, nos	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
congenital malformations vascular	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
anomalies congenital multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
apert syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly, type 1	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly (apert)	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
brain congenital absence	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
anencephaly	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
multiple hemangiomas	A condition with multiple tumor-like lesions caused either by congenital or developmental malformations of BLOOD VESSELS, or reactive vascular proliferations, such as in bacillary angiomatosis. Angiomatosis is considered non-neoplastic.
congenital aniridia (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
missing eyeball	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
congenital atresia of anus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
anal atresias	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
anal atresia	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
coarctation of aorta	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
coarctation of aorta (disorder)	A birth defect characterized by the narrowing of the AORTA that can be of varying degree and at any point from the transverse arch to the iliac bifurcation. Aortic coarctation causes arterial HYPERTENSION before the point of narrowing and arterial HYPOTENSION beyond the narrowed portion.
aortic stenosis supravalv	A pathological constriction occurring in the region above the AORTIC VALVE. It is characterized by restricted outflow from the LEFT VENTRICLE into the AORTA.
ap - aortopulmonary window	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
aortopulmonary window	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
aorticopulmonary septal defects	A developmental abnormality in which the spiral (aortopulmonary) septum failed to completely divide the TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into ASCENDING AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. This abnormal communication between the two major vessels usually lies above their respective valves (AORTIC VALVE; PULMONARY VALVE).
deformity, arnold-chiari	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
multiplex congenita, arthrogryposis (amc)	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
arthrogryposis multiplex congenita	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
amc - arthrogryposis multiplex congenita	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome	Hereditary disorder consisting of multiple basal cell carcinomas, odontogenic keratocysts, and multiple skeletal defects, e.g., frontal and temporoparietal bossing, bifurcated and splayed ribs, kyphoscoliosis, fusion of vertebrae, and cervicothoracic spina bifida. Genetic transmission is autosomal dominant.
beckwith wiedemann syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
syndrome emg	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
blindness;congenital	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
blindness present at birth	Blindness with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
branchial cleft cyst	A tumor derived from branchial epithelium or branchial rests. (Dorland, 27th ed)
family history of genetic disease carrier	an individual who is heterozygous for a recessive gene and thus does not express the recessive phenotype but can transmit the gene to offspring.
choanal atresia (disorder)	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choledochal cyst	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
congenital cystic dilatation of common bile duct	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
congenital anomaly of cartilage (disorder)	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
disorders chromosome	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal abnormality	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal disease	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosome disorders	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosome; anomaly	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal abnormality, unspecified	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
deletions, chromosome	Actual loss of portion of a chromosome.
labium leporinum	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
cleft lip nos (disorder)	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
uranoschisis	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
palatoschisis (disorder)	Congenital fissure of the soft and/or hard palate, due to faulty fusion.
dysostosis, cleidocranial	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
club foot (diagnosis)	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
clubfoot, nos	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital clubfoot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
deformity; clubfoot	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
coi - coloboma of iris, choroid and retina	Congenital anomaly in which some of the structures of the eye are absent due to incomplete fusion of the fetal intraocular fissure during gestation.
biliary calculi, common bile duct	Žlučové kaménky, které se vyskytují v hlavním žlučovodu (ductus choledochus), ale obvykle vznikají ve žlučníku.
bile common duct gallstones	Žlučové kaménky, které se vyskytují v hlavním žlučovodu (ductus choledochus), ale obvykle vznikají ve žlučníku.
anomaly of pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
a.pulmonalis; anomaly	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
anomalous pulmonary artery (morphologic abnormality)(body structure)	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of pulmonary artery, nos	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal; pulmonary artery, congenital	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
anomalous pulmonary artery (morphologic abnormality)	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
anomalous pulmonary artery	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery anomaly, unspecified	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery anomaly	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary artery abnormality (disorder)	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
meningocele - cranial (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
hepatic fibrosis, congenital	A congenital disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It affects the hepatobiliary system and the kidneys. It is characterized by liver fibrosis, portal hypertension, and renal cysts.
congenital spinal hydromeningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
spinal meningocele nos	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
spinal meningocele nos (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
atriums, subdivided left	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
heart, triatrial	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
craniostenosis	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
craniosynostosis (diagnosis)	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
cri du chat syndrome	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
5p deletion syndrome	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
criss cross heart	A developmental malformation of the heart characterized by a twisted but not defective atrioventicular connection. The abnormal rotation of the ventricular mass around its long axis results in the crossing of the inflow streams of the two ventricles. Other features include hypoplasia of the TRICUSPID VALVE and RIGHT VENTRICLE.
crisscross heart	A developmental malformation of the heart characterized by a twisted but not defective atrioventicular connection. The abnormal rotation of the ventricular mass around its long axis results in the crossing of the inflow streams of the two ventricles. Other features include hypoplasia of the TRICUSPID VALVE and RIGHT VENTRICLE.
undescended testicle	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
idt - imperfectly descended testis	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
dens invaginatus	Anomaly of the tooth, found chiefly in upper lateral incisors. It is characterized by invagination of the enamel at the incisal edge.
dentigerous cyst	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
dentigerous cysts	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
heterotopic polyodontia	Most common follicular odontogenic cyst. Occurs in relation to a partially erupted or unerupted tooth with at least the crown of the tooth to which the cyst is attached protruding into the cystic cavity. May give rise to an ameloblastoma and, in rare instances, undergo malignant transformation.
dysplasia; dentin	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
dentinal dysplasia	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
split spinal cord malformation	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
diastematomyelia (congenital defect of spinal cord)	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
diastematomyelias	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
diastematomyelia (congential defect of spinal cord)	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
di george's syndrome	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
origin of both great vessels from right ventricle	Incomplete transposition of the great vessels in which both the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY arise from the RIGHT VENTRICLE. The only outlet of the LEFT VENTRICLE is a large ventricular septal defect (VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS or VSD). The various subtypes are classified by the location of the septal defect, such as subaortic, subpulmonary, or noncommitted.
mongolism	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
trisomy 21 nos	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
duane anomaly	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
syndrome, retraction	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
co-contractive retraction syndromes	Soubor příznaků vzácné vrozené poruchy motility očních bulbů, někdy na podkladě AD dědičnosti, v některých případech vyskytující se sdruženě s jinými anomáliemi. Onemocnění spočívá v anomální inervaci mediálního a laterálního přímého očního svalu vedoucí k nedostatečné kontrakci při addukci bulbu. Při pokusu o addukci je často bulbus stáčen nahoru nebo dolů. Vada se může projevit esotropií, exotropií nebo jsou bulby relativně ve správném postavení při přímém pohledu. V některých případech se rozvíjí amblyopie. Léčba je chirurgická. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
duchenne	An X-linked recessive muscle disease caused by an inability to synthesize DYSTROPHIN, which is involved with maintaining the integrity of the sarcolemma. Muscle fibers undergo a process that features degeneration and regeneration. Clinical manifestations include proximal weakness in the first few years of life, pseudohypertrophy, cardiomyopathy (see MYOCARDIAL DISEASES), and an increased incidence of impaired mentation. Becker muscular dystrophy is a closely related condition featuring a later onset of disease (usually adolescence) and a slowly progressive course. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1415)
patent arteriosus ductus	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
open; ductus arteriosus (botalli)	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
pda - patent ductus arteriosus	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
pda	A congenital heart defect characterized by the persistent opening of fetal DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS that connects the PULMONARY ARTERY to the descending aorta (AORTA, DESCENDING) allowing unoxygenated blood to bypass the lung and flow to the PLACENTA. Normally, the ductus is closed shortly after birth.
dysplastic nevus syndrome	Clinically atypical nevi (usually exceeding 5 mm in diameter and having variable pigmentation and ill defined borders) with an increased risk for development of non-familial cutaneous malignant melanoma. Biopsies show melanocytic dysplasia. Nevi are clinically and histologically identical to the precursor lesions for melanoma in the B-K mole syndrome. (Stedman, 25th ed)
ebsteins anomaly	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
anomaly, ebstein's	Medfödd missbildning av trikuspidalklaffen, där septum- och bakflikarna är fästa vid högra kammarens vägg.
ectodermal dysplasia	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
congenital ectodermal dysplasia	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
congenital ectodermal defect	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectromelia of unspecified limb	Gross hypo- or aplasia of one or more long bones of one or more limbs. The concept includes amelia, hemimelia, phocomelia, and sirenomelia.
eisenmenger's complex	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
defect; eisenmenger	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
eisenmengers syndrome	A condition associated with VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECT and other congenital heart defects that allow the mixing of pulmonary and systemic circulation, increase blood flow into the lung, and subsequent responses to low oxygen in blood. This complex is characterized by progressive PULMONARY HYPERTENSION; HYPERTROPHY of the RIGHT VENTRICLE; CYANOSIS; and ERYTHROCYTOSIS.
ecd	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
epidermodysplasia verruciformis	An autosomal recessive trait with impaired cell-mediated immunity. About 15 human papillomaviruses are implicated in associated infection, four of which lead to skin neoplasms. The disease begins in childhood with red papules and later spreads over the body as gray or yellow scales.
epidermolysis bullosa (diagnosis)	Group of genetically determined disorders characterized by the blistering of skin and mucosae. There are four major forms: acquired, simple, junctional, and dystrophic. Each of the latter three has several varieties.
birth defect in which part of esophagus did not develop	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
congenital malformation of eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital anomaly nos of any part of eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
congenital eye abnormality	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
deformity; eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
eye deformity congenital nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
unspecified anomaly of eye, congenital	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
focal dermal hypoplasias	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
goltz-gorlin (dermal hypoplasia) syndrome	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
focal dermal hypoplasia	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
eruption jaw cyst	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
tooth eruption cyst	A variant of dentigerous cyst found in the soft tissues overlying an erupting tooth. (WHO 2017)
foot deformity congen	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
deformity;foot;congenital	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
foramen ovale patent	A condition in which the FORAMEN OVALE in the ATRIAL SEPTUM fails to close shortly after birth. This results in abnormal communications between the two upper chambers of the heart. An isolated patent ovale foramen without other structural heart defects is usually of no hemodynamic significance.
martin bell syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
syndromes, fragile x	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
cobbler's chest (disorder)	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
excavatum pectus	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
chest, funnel	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
excavatum, pectus	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
disease, gierke's	An autosomal recessive disease in which gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase is absent, resulting in hypoglycemia due to lack of glucose production. Accumulation of glycogen in liver and kidney leads to organomegaly, particularly massive hepatomegaly. Increased concentrations of lactic acid and hyperlipidemia appear in the plasma. Clinical gout often appears in early childhood.
glycogen storage disease type vi	A hepatic GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE in which there is an apparent deficiency of hepatic phosphorylase (GLYCOGEN PHOSPHORYLASE, LIVER FORM) activity.
glycogen storage disease type viii	An x-linked recessive hepatic glycogen storage disease resulting from lack of expression of phosphorylase-b-kinase activity. Symptoms are relatively mild; hepatomegaly, increased liver glycogen, and decreased leukocyte phosphorylase are present. Liver shrinkage occurs in response to glucagon.
mixed gonadal dysgenesis (disorder)	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
[m]hairy naevus nos	A usually benign congenital skin growth that is often pigmented and sometimes develop coarse surface hair. There is a lifetime risk of transformation to malignant melanoma which varies depending on the size of the lesion.
hallerman streiff syndrome	An oculomandibulofacial syndrome principally characterized by dyscephaly (usually brachycephaly), parrot nose, mandibular hypoplasia, proportionate nanism, hypotrichosis, bilateral congenital cataracts, and microphthalmia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
cowden syndrome (disorder)	A hereditary disease characterized by multiple ectodermal, mesodermal, and endodermal nevoid and neoplastic anomalies. Facial trichilemmomas and papillomatous papules of the oral mucosa are the most characteristic lesions. Individuals with this syndrome have a high risk of BREAST CANCER; THYROID CANCER; and ENDOMETRIAL CANCER. This syndrome is associated with mutations in the gene for PTEN PHOSPHATASE.
congenital hand deformities	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
congenital anomaly of the hand	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
anomaly; heart, congenital	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
congen heart defects	Developmental abnormalities involving structures of the heart. These defects are present at birth but may be discovered later in life.
defect, heart septal	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
defects septal	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
heart septal defect	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
congenital cardiac septal defect nos	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
holes in the heart	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
congenital septal defect	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
von hippel-lindau disease	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
vhl	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
hippel-lindau disease	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
lindau's diseases	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
cerebelloretinal angiomatosis, familial	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
von hippel lindau syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
von hippel lindau dis	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
megacolon; hirschsprung	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hirschsprung's disease	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
aganglionic megacolon	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hirschsprung megacolon	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hirschsprung disease	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
hutchinson's incisors	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
congenital absence of cerebral hemispheres	A congenital condition where the greater portions of the cerebral hemispheres and CORPUS STRIATUM are replaced by CSF and glial tissue. The meninges and the skull are well formed, which is consistent with earlier normal embryogenesis of the telencephalon. Bilateral occlusions of the internal carotid arteries in utero is a potential mechanism. Clinical features include intact brainstem reflexes without evidence of higher cortical activity. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p307)
ventricle; dilatation, cerebral, congenital	Hydrocephalus that is present at birth.
hypertelorism	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
increased distance between eyes	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
increased distance between eye sockets	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
hypertelorism of orbit (disorder)	Abnormal increase in the interorbital distance due to overdevelopment of the lesser wings of the sphenoid.
congenital ichthyosis	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
ichthyosis	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
congenital ichthyosis of skin (disorder)	skin disorders characterized by dryness, roughness, and scaliness, due to hypertrophy of the stratum corneum epidermis that exist at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation; most ichthyoses are genetically determined.
bloch-siemans syndrome	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
nevus pigmentosus systematicus	A genodermatosis occurring mostly in females and characterized by skin changes in three phases - vesiculobullous, verrucous papillomatous, and macular melanodermic. Hyperpigmentation is bizarre and irregular. Sixty percent of patients have abnormalities of eyes, teeth, central nervous system, and skin appendages.
incontinentia pigmenti achromians	A large brown, blue, or gray hamartoma of dermal melanocytes, usually on the shoulder and upper arm that is most commonly found in Asian populations and in females. It is sometimes associated with sensory changes in the involved skin area, but very rarely becomes cancerous.
jaundice, chronic idiopathic	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
hyperbilirubinemia 2	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
deafness, congenital, and functional heart disease	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell-lange nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
cardio-auditory-syncope syndromes	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
jervell and lange nielsen syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
triad; kartagener	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma (disorder)	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
dd	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
keratosis follicularis	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
keratosis punctata (palmaris et plantaris)	Abnormal thickening of the skin localized to the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
syndrome, cacchi-ricci	En icke ärftlig njursjukdom som kännetecknas av en onormal vidgning av samlingsrören i njurmärgen och njurpapillerna. Samlingsrören innehåller cystor eller utbuktningar fyllda med en geléartad substans eller små njurstenar, vilket kan leda till infektioner eller obstruktion. Svampnjure måste särskiljas från medfödd eller ärftlig polycystnjure.
klinefelter's syndrome karyotype 47,xxy	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
klinefelter's syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
syndrome, xxy	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
anomaly; chromosomes, chromosomal, sex, klinefelter	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
klippel-feil syndrome	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
parkes weber syndrome	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
pvl - periventricular leucomalacia	Degeneration of white matter adjacent to the CEREBRAL VENTRICLES following cerebral hypoxia or BRAIN ISCHEMIA in neonates. The condition primarily affects white matter in the perfusion zone between superficial and deep branches of the MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. Clinical manifestations include VISION DISORDERS; CEREBRAL PALSY; PARAPLEGIA; SEIZURES; and cognitive disorders. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1021; Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1997, Ch4, pp30-1)
periventricular leukomalacia	Degeneration of white matter adjacent to the CEREBRAL VENTRICLES following cerebral hypoxia or BRAIN ISCHEMIA in neonates. The condition primarily affects white matter in the perfusion zone between superficial and deep branches of the MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. Clinical manifestations include VISION DISORDERS; CEREBRAL PALSY; PARAPLEGIA; SEIZURES; and cognitive disorders. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1021; Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1997, Ch4, pp30-1)
levocardia	Congenital abnormalities in which the HEART is in the normal position (levocardia) in the left side of the chest but some or all of the THORAX or ABDOMEN viscera are transposed laterally (SITUS INVERSUS). It is also known as situs inversus with levocardia, or isolated levocardia. This condition is often associated with severe heart defects and splenic abnormalities such as asplenia or polysplenia.
syndrome, lutembacher	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
syndrome, lutembacher's	En kombination av förmaksseptumdefekt och mitralstenos.
macroglossia (physical finding)	The presence of an excessively large tongue, which may be congenital or may develop as a result of a tumor or edema due to obstruction of lymphatic vessels, or it may occur in association with hyperpituitarism or acromegaly. It also may be associated with malocclusion because of pressure of the tongue on the teeth. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
congenital macrostomia (disorder)	Greatly exaggerated width of the mouth, resulting from failure of union of the maxillary and mandibular processes, with extension of the oral orifice toward the ear. The defect may be unilateral or bilateral. (Dorland, 27th ed)
chondrodysplasia with haemangioma	A rare non-inherited disorder primarily affecting the skin and skeletal system. It is classified as a mesodermal dysplasia. Clinical signs appear within the first decade and are characterized by multiple soft tissue hemiangiomas and enchondromas leading to skeletal deformities. Clinical course is progressive with variable development of associated malignancies.
srps, type ii	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
short-rib thoracic dysplasia 6 with or without polydactyly	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
eye; melanosis, congenital	A congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate-gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera . The conjunctiva are spared. []
multiple endocrine neoplasia, type iib	Similar to MEN2A, it is also caused by mutations of the MEN2 gene, also known as the RET proto-oncogene. Its clinical symptoms include medullary carcinoma (CARCINOMA, MEDULLARY) of THYROID GLAND and PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA of ADRENAL MEDULLA (50%). Unlike MEN2a, MEN2b does not involve PARATHYROID NEOPLASMS. It can be distinguished from MEN2A by its neural abnormalities such as mucosal NEUROMAS on EYELIDS; LIP; and TONGUE, and ganglioneuromatosis of GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT leading to MEGACOLON. It is an autosomal dominant inherited disease.
meningomyelocele nos (disorder)	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
meningomyelocele (disorder)	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
meningomyelocele (diagnosis)	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
congenital mesenteric cyst (disorder)	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
cyst of mesentery (disorder)	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
microglossia - congenital	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
congenital micrognathias	Abnormally small jaw.
small lower jaw	Abnormally small jaw.
small jaw	Abnormally small jaw.
mitral valve insufficiency	Backflow of blood from the LEFT VENTRICLE into the LEFT ATRIUM due to imperfect closure of the MITRAL VALVE. This can lead to mitral valve regurgitation.
congenital malformation of mouth nos	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
abnorm mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
abnormal mouth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the mouth.
natal tooth (disorder)	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
islet cell hyperplasia nos	A sporadic or inherited disorder characterized by the focal or diffuse proliferation of the cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. It results in hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia.
pancreatic endocrine cell hyperplasia	A sporadic or inherited disorder characterized by the focal or diffuse proliferation of the cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. It results in hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia.
developmental neural tube defects	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
ntds	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
ntd - neural tube defect	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neurenteric cyst (morphologic abnormality)	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neurenteric cysts	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
cysts, neuroenteric	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
recklinghausen disease	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
neurofibromatosis type i	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
von recklinghausen disease	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
neurofibromatosis 1	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
acoustic neurofibromatosis	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
neurofibromatosis, type 2	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
acoustic neurofibromatoses, bilateral	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
neurofibromatoses, type ii	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
neurofibromatosis 2	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
nf2	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
oculodermal melanocytosis	A macular lesion on the side of the FACE, involving the CONJUNCTIVA and EYELIDS, as well as the adjacent facial skin, SCLERA; OCULOMOTOR MUSCLES; and PERIOSTEUM. Histological features vary from those of a MONGOLIAN SPOT to those of a BLUE NEVUS.
naevus fusoceruleus ophthalmomaxillasis	A macular lesion on the side of the FACE, involving the CONJUNCTIVA and EYELIDS, as well as the adjacent facial skin, SCLERA; OCULOMOTOR MUSCLES; and PERIOSTEUM. Histological features vary from those of a MONGOLIAN SPOT to those of a BLUE NEVUS.
noonan's syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
autosomal recessive pachydermoperiostosis	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
touraine-solente-gole syndrome	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
idiopathic hypertrophic osteoarthropathy	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
harder, denser, fracture-prone bones	Excessive formation of dense trabecular bone leading to pathological fractures; OSTEITIS; SPLENOMEGALY with infarct; ANEMIA; and extramedullary hemopoiesis (HEMATOPOIESIS, EXTRAMEDULLARY).
albers-schönberg disease	Excessive formation of dense trabecular bone leading to pathological fractures; OSTEITIS; SPLENOMEGALY with infarct; ANEMIA; and extramedullary hemopoiesis (HEMATOPOIESIS, EXTRAMEDULLARY).
acrocephalic skull (physical finding)	Tvarová varianta brachycefalu, věžovitý tvar hlavy způsobený předčasnou synostózou příčných švů s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Hlava dělá dojem malého objemu, ale s nápadnou výškou, čelo je příkré a vysoké, orbity jsou úzké, vysoké a mělké. Oči prominují. Rozlišují se tři dědičné klinické varianty. 1. o. spojený s kraniostenózou a s atrofií nn. optici 2. o. spojený s familiárním hemolytickým ikterem 3. akrocefalická syndaktylie (Apertův syndrom).(cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
papillon lefevre dis	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
papillon-lefevre disease	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
cyst of periodontal tissue (disorder)	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
periodontal cyst	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
cyst; periodontal	An epithelium-lined sac containing fluid; usually found at the apex of a pulp-involved tooth. The lateral type occurs less frequently along the side of the root.
persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (disorder)	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
persistent pulmonary hypertension of newborn	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
pfc - persistent foetal circulation	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
persistent ostium primum	A congenital defect in the atrial septum at the level of the atrioventricular valves, resulting in abnormalities in the mitral and/or tricuspid valve; this defect is most commonly seen in those with Trisomy 21.
periorificial lentiginosis syndromes	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
peutz-jegher's syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
platybasia (disorder)	A developmental deformity of the occipital bone and upper end of the cervical spine, in which the latter appears to have pushed the floor of the occipital bone upward. (Dorland, 27th ed)
rothmund-thomson poikiloderma	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
poikiloderma congenitales	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
polyploids	The chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of CHROMOSOMES; includes triploidy (symbol: 3N), tetraploidy (symbol: 4N), etc.
colus, polyposis	A polyposis syndrome due to an autosomal dominant mutation of the APC genes (GENES, APC) on CHROMOSOME 5. The syndrome is characterized by the development of hundreds of ADENOMATOUS POLYPS in the COLON and RECTUM of affected individuals by early adulthood.
prader willi syndromes	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
prader willi syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
eagle-barrett syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
prune belly; syndrome	A syndrome characterized by abdominal wall musculature deficiency, cryptorchism, and urinary tract abnormalities. The syndrome derives its name from its characteristic distended abdomen with wrinkled skin.
stenosis pulm infundibular	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
diseases, classic refsum	An autosomal recessive familial disorder that usually presents in childhood with POLYNEUROPATHY; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; ICHTHYOSIS; ATAXIA; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and CARDIOMYOPATHIES. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1991, Ch37, p58-9; Rev Med Interne 1996;17(5):391-8) This condition can be caused by mutation in the genes encoding peroxisomal phytanoyl-CoA hydroxylase or proteins associated peroxisomal membrane, leading to impaired catabolism of PHYTANIC ACID in PEROXISOMES.
respiratory tract malformation nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital malformation of respiratory system, unspecified	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
congenital respiratory system disorder	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
abnormality, respiratory system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
retina dysplasia (physical finding)	Congenital, often bilateral, retinal abnormality characterized by the arrangement of outer nuclear retinal cells in a palisading or radiating pattern surrounding a central ocular space. This disorder is sometimes hereditary.
dysplasias, retinal	Congenital, often bilateral, retinal abnormality characterized by the arrangement of outer nuclear retinal cells in a palisading or radiating pattern surrounding a central ocular space. This disorder is sometimes hereditary.
retrognathia	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
congenital retrognathism	Stav osoby trpící retrognacií.
saldino-noonan syndrome	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
saldino noonan short rib polydactyly syndrome	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
sex chromosome abnormality	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
chromosome aberration, sex	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
anomaly of sex chromosome (diagnosis)	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
sympus apus	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
mermaid malformation	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
mermaid sirenomelia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
situs inversus, unspecified (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
situs inversus or transversus	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
ichthyosis, spastic neurologic disorder, and oligophrenia	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
sjogren-larsson syndrome	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase defic dis	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
congenital anomaly of skin	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
abnormality, skin	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
congenital anomaly of skin, nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
congenital skin disorder	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
genetic skin disease	Diseases of the skin with a genetic component, usually the result of various inborn errors of metabolism.
sturge disease	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
angiomatosis; encephalotrigeminal	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
dimitri-sturge-weber	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndrome, parkes weber	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
meningofacial angiomatosis-cerebral calcification syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
angiomatosis oculo-orbital-thalamo-encephalic syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndrome, sturge	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
encephalocutaneous angiomatosis	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
congenital thyroglossal cyst	A cyst in the neck caused by persistence of portions of, or by lack of closure of, the primitive thyroglossal duct. (Dorland, 27th ed)
thyroglossal cyst	A cyst in the neck caused by persistence of portions of, or by lack of closure of, the primitive thyroglossal duct. (Dorland, 27th ed)
tooth anomalies	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
supplemental tooth	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
dextro looped transposition of the great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
great vessels; transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of the great vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of great vessels (complete)	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
great arteries transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
complete transposition of great arteries (diagnosis)	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
transposition of the great arteries	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
artery great transposition	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
insufficiency, tricuspid valve	Backflow of blood from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the RIGHT ATRIUM due to imperfect closure of the TRICUSPID VALVE.
valve prolapses, tricuspid	Abnormal protrusion of one or more of the leaflets of TRICUSPID VALVE into the RIGHT ATRIUM during SYSTOLE. This allows the backflow of blood into right atrium leading to TRICUSPID VALVE INSUFFICIENCY; SYSTOLIC MURMURS. Its most common cause is not primary valve abnormality but rather the dilation of the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the tricuspid annulus.
fallot's trilogy (disorder)	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of three key features including ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; and RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY.
arteriosus; truncus	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
truncus arteriosus	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
truncus arteriosus communis	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
sclerosis, tuberose	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
tuberous sclerosis complex	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
bourneville's disease	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
syndrome, bourneville's	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
tuberous; sclerosis	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
turner syndrome karyotype 45, x	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
monosomy x	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
gonadal dysgenesis - turner	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
genitourinary abnormality	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
genitourinary anomalies nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
congenital urogenital anomaly, nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
congenital urogenital anomaly	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
kaposi dermatosis	A rare, pigmentary, and atrophic autosomal recessive disease. It is manifested as an extreme photosensitivity to ULTRAVIOLET RAYS as the result of a deficiency in the enzyme that permits excisional repair of ultraviolet-damaged DNA.
branchial cleft malformations	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
branchial clefting	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
branchial cleft malformations (diagnosis)	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
branchial cleft anomaly	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
congenital bullous ichthyosiform erythroderma	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
lamellar ichthyosis	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
congen nonbullous ichthyosiform erythroderma	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
ichthyosiforme, nonbullous erythroderma	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
acquired epidermolysis bullosa	Form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by trauma-induced, subepidermal blistering with no family history of the disease. Direct immunofluorescence shows IMMUNOGLOBULIN G deposited at the dermo-epidermal junction.
epidermolysis bullosa junctional	Form of epidermolysis bullosa having onset at birth or during the neonatal period and transmitted through autosomal recessive inheritance. It is characterized by generalized blister formation, extensive denudation, and separation and cleavage of the basal cell plasma membranes from the basement membrane.
epidermolysis bullosa junctionalis, disentis type	Form of epidermolysis bullosa having onset at birth or during the neonatal period and transmitted through autosomal recessive inheritance. It is characterized by generalized blister formation, extensive denudation, and separation and cleavage of the basal cell plasma membranes from the basement membrane.
congenital sternomastoid torticollis	A congenital form of torticollis resulting from shortening of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and leading to a limited range of motion in both rotation and lateral bending. [HPO:probinson]
ichthyosiform erythroderma	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
congenital ichthyosiform erythrodermas	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
congen ichthyosiform erythroderma	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
dominant ichthyosis vulgaris	Most common form of ICHTHYOSIS characterized by prominent scaling especially on the exterior surfaces of the extremities. It is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
ichthyosis vulgaris (diagnosis)	Most common form of ICHTHYOSIS characterized by prominent scaling especially on the exterior surfaces of the extremities. It is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
x-linked recessive ichthyosis	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
x-linked ichthyosis	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
occulta - spina bifida	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
bifida occults spina	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
posterior rachischisis	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spine, open	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
incomplete closure of the vertebral arch	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
dysraphia, spinal	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spina bifida (diagnosis)	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spinal myelomeningocele	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
occult spinal dysraphism	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
spinal cord syndrome	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
arteriohepatic dysplasia (disorder)	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
polycystic; kidney, infantile type	A genetic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance, characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS and associated LIVER lesions. Serious manifestations are usually present at BIRTH with high PERINATAL MORTALITY.
aganglionosis, total colonic	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
tca	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
myelocele nos (disorder)	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
bicuspid aortic valve	The presence of an aortic valve with two instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). Bicuspid aortic valvue is a malformation of a commissure (small space between the attachment of each cusp to the aortic wall) and the adjacent parts of the two corresponding cusps forming a raphe (the fused area of the two underdeveloped cusps turning into a malformed commissure between both cusps; the raphe is a fibrous ridge that extends from the commissure to the free edge of the two underdeveloped, conjoint cusps). [HPO:probinson, PMID:17467434, PMID:24827036]
annular; pancreas	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
pancreas, annular	A rare congenital abnormality in which the duodenum is surrounded by a ring of pancreatic tissue. It may result in constriction of the duodenum and feeding intolerance.
congenital malformations and deformations of the musculoskeletal system	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital musculoskeletal deformity nos (disorder)	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital deformity of musculoskeletal system	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital musculoskeletal abnormality, nos	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
musculoskeletal abnorm	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
musculoskeletal abnormalities	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
disease (or disorder); heart, congenital	imperfections or malformations of the heart, existing at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation.
patau's syndrome	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
syndrome; trisomy, 13	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
patau's syndrome nos	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
edward's syndrome nos	a kind of genetic disease
edward's syndrome nos (disorder)	a kind of genetic disease
fused eyelids	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
iniencephaly nos	A rare neural tube defect characterized by extreme retroflexion of the head and severe defects of the spine. It is usually associated with other congenital anomalies.
tongue-tie	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
ankyloglossia congenital	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
tongue tied	Short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum, associated with limited mobility of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
iaa - interrupted aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
aortic arch interruption	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
single ventricle	An umbrella term used to describe several very different complex congenital heart defects that share the same problem: the heart has only one functional ventricle (anatomically right or left or indeterminate) supplying the systemic circulation. These defects include tricuspid atresia, hypoplastic left or right heart syndrome, double outlet right ventricle, double inlet left ventricle, and other forms of single ventricle defects.
craniorachischisis (disorder)	A rare and severe form of neural tube defect in which there are open cranial and open spinal defects at birth.
cranial rachischisis	A rare and severe form of neural tube defect in which there are open cranial and open spinal defects at birth.
fusion; hymen	A congenital disorder where the hymen (a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening) does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina. [PMID:24822139]
hymen, imperforate	A congenital disorder where the hymen (a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening) does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina. [PMID:24822139]
hydrorhachis	Dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo. [HPO:sdoelken]
vascular anomaly of eyelid (disorder)	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
vascular anomalies of unspecified eye, unspecified eyelid	Any non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels of the eyelid.
congenital coloboma of optic disc	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
umbilical hernia w gangr	A protrusion of necrotic tissue through the abdominal wall under the skin near the umbilicus.
congenital insufficiency of aortic valve	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congenital aortic valve insufficiency (disorder)	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
aortic valve; insufficiency, congenital	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
ms - congenital mitral stenosis	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
mitral; stenosis, congenital	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
mitral stenosis congenital	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital mitral stenosis, unspecified (disorder)	Mitral stenosis with congenital onset. [DDD:dbrown]
connection; pulmonary veins, anomaly, partial	A congenital heart disorder in which one or two pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the right atrium instead. It may lead to arrhythmias and pulmonary hypertension.
congenital lung malformation, nos	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
congenital anomaly of lung (disorder)	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
pulmonary; anomaly	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
congenital malformations of lung	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
congenital lung malformation nos	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
cleft lip and palate	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
absence of tongue	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
tongue absent	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
fibrocystic liver disease	A usually asymptomatic hereditary disorder which is often associated with polycystic kidney disease. It is characterized by the presence of fluid-filled biliary cysts throughout the liver.
congenital malformation of the urinary system	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital deformity nos of urinary system	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital anomaly of urinary tract, nos	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
urinary system anomalies nos (disorder)	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
urinary system congenital anomalies	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
congenital malformation of the urinary system (disorder)	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
urinary tract; deformity	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
macrodactylia of toe (diagnosis)	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hydrocoele of tunica vaginalis	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
congenital hydrocele of tunica vaginalis	Congenital hydrocele occurs when processus vaginalis is patent and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. This communication allows the movement of peritoneal fluid but is too small to allow the intra-abdominal contents to herniate through. [PMID:32644551]
hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome, nos	An X-linked form of ectodermal dysplasia which results from mutations of the gene encoding ECTODYSPLASIN.
caroli dis	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
carolis disease	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
as	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
puppet children	A syndrome characterized by multiple abnormalities, MENTAL RETARDATION, and movement disorders. Present usually are skull and other abnormalities, frequent infantile spasms (SPASMS, INFANTILE); easily provoked and prolonged paroxysms of laughter (hence "happy"); jerky puppetlike movements (hence "puppet"); continuous tongue protrusion; motor retardation; ATAXIA; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; and a peculiar facies. It is associated with maternal deletions of chromosome 15q11-13 and other genetic abnormalities. (From Am J Med Genet 1998 Dec 4;80(4):385-90; Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jan;8(1):129-35)
neurofibromatosis syndromes	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
neurofibromatosis, nos	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
neurofibromatosis nos	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
[m]neurofibromatosis nos	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
syndrome, kallmann	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
porokeratosis plantaris palmaris et disseminata (disorder)	A rare form of porokeratosis occurring mainly in adolescence and characterized by small pruritic or painful keratotic papules that first appear on the palms and soles, and may gradually become generalized. The prevalence is unknown but it is one of the rarest forms of porokeratosis. The disease is more frequently seen in males. The exact etiology is unknown. A possible locus for PPPD has been found on chromosome 12q24.1-24.2. Usually follows a dominant (autosomal or X-linked) pattern of inheritance.
sotos syndrome	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
gigantisms, cerebral	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
vdws	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
saethre-chotzen syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
acrocephalosyndactylies, type 3	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
acrocephaly, skull asymmetry, and mild syndactyly	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TWIST1 gene. It is characterized by premature closure of skull bones resulting in abnormally shaped head, high forehead, hypertelorism, and facial asymmetry. It may be associated with fusion of certain fingers or toes.
multiple lentigines syndrome	Ett syndrom som kännetecknas av lentigo, ekg-avvikelser, hypertelorism, pulmonalstenos, onormalt utvecklade könsorgan, hämmad växt och dövhet. Det beror på mutationer i PTPN11-genen, som kodar för protein-tyrosinfosfatas typ 11, ett icke-receptorprotein. De kliniska dragen delas med Noonans syndrom, som också beror på mutationer i PTPN11, och med neurofibromatos 1. Syndromet har även kopplats till mutationer i NF1-genen.
potter's sequence	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potter's anomaly of the kidney	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potter sequence	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
oligohydramnios sequence (disorder)	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
potter; syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
wilms tumor, aniridia, genitourinary anomalies, mental retardation syndrome	A contiguous gene syndrome associated with hemizygous deletions of chromosome region 11p13. The condition is marked by the combination of WILMS TUMOR; ANIRIDIA; GENITOURINARY ABNORMALITIES; and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
nemaline myopathies	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
pachydermatocele	A type of neurofibroma manifesting as a diffuse overgrowth of subcutaneous tissue, usually involving the face, scalp, neck, and chest but occasionally occurring in the abdomen or pelvis. The tumors tend to progress, and may extend along nerve roots to eventually involve the spinal roots and spinal cord. This process is almost always a manifestation of NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1016; J Pediatr 1997 Nov;131(5):678-82)
capillary angioma	A dull red, firm, dome-shaped hemangioma, sharply demarcated from surrounding skin, usually located on the head and neck, which grows rapidly and generally undergoes regression and involution without scarring. It is caused by proliferation of immature capillary vessels in active stroma, and is usually present at birth or occurs within the first two or three months of life. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congen limb anomaly nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
unspecified congenital anomaly of unspecified limb	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
deformity, congenital limb	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
limb malformation nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
pfeiffer syndrome - oto-onychoperoneal	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
pfeiffers syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus syndrome	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
blepharophimosis syndrome (disorder)	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
aase smith i syndrome	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
vcf syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
malignant atrophic papulosis of degos	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
malignant atrophic papulosis (disorder)	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
degos syndrome	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
karyotype 47,xxx (diagnosis)	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
oromandibular-limb hypogenesis spectrum (disorder)	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
moebius spectrum	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
syndrome; facial diplegia, congenital	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
moebius syndromes	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
moebius sequence	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
glossopalatine ankylosis syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
oromandibular-limb hypogenesis spectrum	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
diplegia; facial, congenital syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
abnormality of the palm lines	An abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand. [HPO:probinson]
vascular ring of aorta (diagnosis)	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular; ring	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
vascular ring (morphologic abnormality)	An unusual congenital abnormality in which the aorta or aortic branches encircle the trachea and esophagus. Signs and symptoms include difficulty swallowing and eating, persistent cough, noisy breathing, and acid reflex.
common atrioventricular canal (disorder)	A congenital heart defect characterized by a specific combination of heart defects with a common atrioventricular valve, primum atrial septal defect and inlet ventricular septal defect. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:16722604]
skull bossing	A skeletal deformity characterized by an unusually prominent forehead. Causes include acromegaly, Hurler syndrome, Silver-Russell syndrome, and thalassemia major.
wide skull	Hlava s nápadně krátkým předozadním průměrem způsobená kraniosynostózou koronárního švu s kompenzatorním růstem ostatních švů. Jeho varianty jsou 1. brachycephalus simplex - zkrácení hlavně spodiny lební 2. pachycefalus - hlava vpředu krátká, vzadu široká 3. oxycefalus - hlava krátká, vpředu široká, do výšky zašpičatělá - věžovitá hlava 4. platycefalus - plochá hlava 5. trochocefalus - abnormálně kulatá hlava. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2016 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
brachydactylisms	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
diaphragmatic aplasia	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
duplication of ureter	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of two separate ureters draining a kidney.
flammeus nevus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
congenital diaphragmatic hernia (diagnosis)	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
fshd - facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy	En autosomalt dominant, degenerativ muskelsjukdom som kännetecknas av långsamt tilltagande svaghet i ansiktets, överarmens och skuldergördelns muskler. Symtomen debuterar vanligtvis under livets första eller andra årtionde. De drabbade uppvisar oftast försämrad förmåga att höja armarna. Dessa tecken brukar följas av ansiktsmuskelsvaghet, främst i munnens och ögats ringmuskler.
dystrophy, facioscapulohumeral muscular	En autosomalt dominant, degenerativ muskelsjukdom som kännetecknas av långsamt tilltagande svaghet i ansiktets, överarmens och skuldergördelns muskler. Symtomen debuterar vanligtvis under livets första eller andra årtionde. De drabbade uppvisar oftast försämrad förmåga att höja armarna. Dessa tecken brukar följas av ansiktsmuskelsvaghet, främst i munnens och ögats ringmuskler.
female pseudohermaphroditism nos	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In female pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is female (XX) and the gonads are ovaries, but the external genitalia are virilized. [HPO:curators]
lenticonus (disorder)	A conical projection of the anterior or posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:ncarter]
syndromes, harlequin baby	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
fetal; ichthyosis	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
byzanthine arch palate (disorder)	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
coloboma, retinochoroidal	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of pulmonary valve	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
tricuspid atresias	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
tricuspid (valve); atresia	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
valve atresia, tricuspid	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
valve atresias, tricuspid	Absence of the orifice between the RIGHT ATRIUM and RIGHT VENTRICLE, with the presence of an atrial defect through which all the systemic venous return reaches the left heart. As a result, there is left ventricular hypertrophy (HYPERTROPHY, LEFT VENTRICULAR) because the right ventricle is absent or not functional.
steatocystoma multiplex	A disorder characterized by multiple, wide spread cutaneous cysts that often become inflamed and rupture. It is caused by the same mutations in the gene coding for KRT-17 that are causative mutations for Pachyonychia congenita, Type 2. Natal teeth involvement is sometimes associated with steatocystoma multiplex.
keratosis pilaris (diagnosis)	A very common, non-neoplastic dermatologic disorder characterized by keratinization of hair follicles of the skin. It manifests as small, rough folliculocentric keratotic papules, usually in the outer-upper arms and thighs. It affects children and adolescents and usually improves with age.
cutis marmorata (disorder)	A reticular discoloration of the skin with cyanotic (reddish-blue appearing) areas surrounding pale central areas due to dilation of capillary blood vessels and stagnation of blood within the vessels. Cutis marmorata generally occurs on the legs, arms and trunk and is often more severe in cold weather. [HPO:sdoelken]
cutis marmorata	A reticular discoloration of the skin with cyanotic (reddish-blue appearing) areas surrounding pale central areas due to dilation of capillary blood vessels and stagnation of blood within the vessels. Cutis marmorata generally occurs on the legs, arms and trunk and is often more severe in cold weather. [HPO:sdoelken]
ulerythema ophryogenes	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
keratosis pilaris atrophicans	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
becker's nevus	A benign lesion that is sometimes congenital and consists of an overgrowth of the epidermis and the presence of melanin-containing cells. It is found mostly in males and typically develops during childhood or adolescence, becoming darker and more hairy after puberty.
seckel's syndrome	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
nanocephalic dwarf	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
miller-dieker syndrome (disorder)	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
syndrome, chemke	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
wws	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
cod-md syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
cerebro-ocular dysgenesis	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
hard syndromes	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
warburg syndrome (disorder)	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
cerebroocular dysplasia muscular dystrophy syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
arthrogryposis distal type 2a	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
fraser syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive congenital malformation syndrome characterized by cryptophthalmos, SYNDACTYLY and UROGENITAL ABNORMALITIES. Other anomalies of bone, ear, lung, and nose are common. Mutations on FRAS1 and FREM2 are associated with the syndrome.
mrshs	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(XI) chain. The syndrome may be characterized by facial dysmorphism, cataracts, myopia, hearing loss, and short stature. Mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene are causative in Stickler syndrome, but the phenotype of Marshall syndrome is more mild.
oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
facial dysplasias, lateral	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
dysplasia, lateral facial	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
moeschler clarren syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
townes syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
cls	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
coffin-lowry syndrome	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
facio-genito-popliteal syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
escobar syndrome	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
holt-oram syndrome (disorder)	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
wms - weill-marchesani syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
syndromes, neurocutaneous	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
neurocutaneous syndrome	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
syndromes, neuroectodermal dysplasia	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
phakomatosis, unspecified	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
facial angiofibroma	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
angiokeratoma in tuberous sclerosis	The presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin. [HPO:probinson]
peutz-jeghers hamartoma of the small intestine	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
peutz-jeghers polyp of the small intestine	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
peutz-jeghers polyp of small intestine	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
turcot syndrome	An autosomal dominant hereditary neoplastic syndrome caused by mutations in the PMS2, MLH1, MSH2, or APC genes. There are two types described, type 1, characterized by the presence of glioblastoma and often associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal carcinoma, and type 2, characterized by the presence of medulloblastoma and familiar adenomatous polyposis.
riley smith syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
alopecia epilepsy oligophrenia syndrome of moynahan	A rare genetic epilepsy syndrome with characteristics of congenital alopecia, early-onset epilepsy, intellectual disability and speech delay. Large stature, delayed bone development and abnormal electroencephalogram have also been associated.
rieger's anomaly (diagnosis)	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
jarcho-levin syndrome (disorder)	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
phenytoin embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
ring chromosome 1 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including significant intrauterine and postnatal growth failure, developmental delay, intellectual disability, microcephaly and dysmorphic facial features. Some less frequent clinical features are dysgenesis of corpus callosum, atrial septal defect, rocker bottom feet and clinodactyly.
deletion 9p syndrome, partial	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9. The syndrome has a highly variable phenotype with typical characteristics of intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism (trigonocephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, hypoplastic supraorbital ridges), abnormal digits (long middle phalanges with short distal phalanges), as well as frequent association with genitourinary abnormalities (cryptorchidism, hypospadias, ambiguous genitalia, 46,XY testicular dysgenesis). Congenital hypothyroidism and cardiovascular defects have been reported in some cases. Patients present an increased risk for gonadoblastoma.
9p partial monosomy syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome resulting from a partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 9. The syndrome has a highly variable phenotype with typical characteristics of intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism (trigonocephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, hypoplastic supraorbital ridges), abnormal digits (long middle phalanges with short distal phalanges), as well as frequent association with genitourinary abnormalities (cryptorchidism, hypospadias, ambiguous genitalia, 46,XY testicular dysgenesis). Congenital hypothyroidism and cardiovascular defects have been reported in some cases. Patients present an increased risk for gonadoblastoma.
ring chromosome 10 syndrome (diagnosis)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, depending on the size and precise location of deleted chromosome segments. Most patients present with developmental delay, intellectual disability, growth retardation, microcephaly, clinodactyly and dysmorphic features. Congenital heart disease and genitourinary anomalies are reported in some cases.
ring chromosome 11 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, including early growth retardation and short stature, microcephaly, developmental delay, some degree of intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism and cafe-au-lait spots. In some cases, congenital heart disease and endocrine abnormalities have been reported.
ring chromosome 11 syndrome (diagnosis)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, including early growth retardation and short stature, microcephaly, developmental delay, some degree of intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism and cafe-au-lait spots. In some cases, congenital heart disease and endocrine abnormalities have been reported.
isochromosome 12p syndrome	A very rare chromosomal disorder caused by tetrasomy of chromosome 12p. It is characterized by severe mental retardation, prominent forehead, sparse temporofrontal hair, hypertelorism, short nose, and streaks of hypopigmented skin.
monosomy 13q syndrome	A rare syndrome that is characterized by the partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 13. Signs and symptoms include low birth weight, craniofacial malformations, hands and feet malformations, and mental and psychomotor retardation.
ring chromosome 18 syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including hypotonia, neonatal feeding and respiratory difficulties, microcephaly, global developmental delay and intellectual disability, growth hormone deficiency, hypothyroidism, hearing loss, aural atresia, dysmorphic facial features and behavioural characteristics.
mosaic trisomy 20 syndrome	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal (in the majority of cases) to a mild, subtle phenotype. Principle characteristics are spinal abnormalities (stenosis, vertebral fusion, and kyphosis), hypotonia, lifelong constipation, sloped shoulders, skin pigmentation abnormalities (linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis) and significant learning disabilities despite normal intelligence. More severe phenotypes, with patients presenting psychomotor and speech delay, mild facial dysmorphism, cardiac (ventricular septal defect, dysplastic tricuspid mitral valve) and renal anomalies (horseshoe kidneys) have also been reported.
complete trisomy 20 syndrome (disorder)	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal (in the majority of cases) to a mild, subtle phenotype. Principle characteristics are spinal abnormalities (stenosis, vertebral fusion, and kyphosis), hypotonia, lifelong constipation, sloped shoulders, skin pigmentation abnormalities (linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis) and significant learning disabilities despite normal intelligence. More severe phenotypes, with patients presenting psychomotor and speech delay, mild facial dysmorphism, cardiac (ventricular septal defect, dysplastic tricuspid mitral valve) and renal anomalies (horseshoe kidneys) have also been reported.
20p partial trisomy syndrome	Disorder resulting from duplication of all or part of the short arm of chromosome 20 with characteristics of normal growth, mild to moderate intellectual disability, speech delay, poor coordination and evocative facial features. The chromosomal anomaly may occur de novo, but most reported cases arise from a reciprocal translocation or, as described in a few cases, a parental inversion.
ring chromosome 20 syndrome (diagnosis)	Disease marked by a characteristic seizure phenotype. Depending on the amount of chromosomal loss and associated mosaicism, ring(20) can be associated with macrocephaly, mild to moderate intellectual deficit, or behavioural problems. In rare cases, brain, kidney or heart malformations may be present.
ring chromosome 21 syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including growth retardation, developmental delay, intellectual disability, epilepsy, microcephaly, short stature, dysmorphic features, hypogammaglobulinemia, thrombocytopenia and unspecific skeletal anomalies (hemivertebrae, clinodactyly, syndactyly). In rare cases, it has been described in phenotypically normal individuals.
chromosome; 22, trisomy	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
complete trisomy 22 syndrome	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
anomaly of chromosome pair ring 22 syndrome	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including global developmental delay, hypotonia, growth retardation with microcephaly, intellectual disability with severe speech delay, seizures or abnormal EEG, autistic spectrum disorder and other behavioural characteristics.
ring chromosome 22 syndrome (diagnosis)	An autosomal anomaly with characteristics of variable clinical features, most commonly including global developmental delay, hypotonia, growth retardation with microcephaly, intellectual disability with severe speech delay, seizures or abnormal EEG, autistic spectrum disorder and other behavioural characteristics.
inv dup(22)(q11)	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
cat eye syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome caused by abnormalities of chromosome 22. It is characterized by anal atresia with fistula formation, coloboma of the iris, down slanting palpebral fissures, and heart and kidney malformations.
four x syndrome (disorder)	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
penta x syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
48, xxxy syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has 2 extra X chromosomes.
craniofenestria	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
dimelia (disorder)	Congenital duplication of all or part of a limb. []
supernumerary carpal bone	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
congenital deformities of hip	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
[x]congenital deformity of hip, unspecified (disorder)	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
phocomelia of the lower limb (disorder)	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
talipes equinovalgus (physical finding)	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
tarsal synostosis	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
tarsal; fusion	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
patella; bifid	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
congenital fusion of ribs	Complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
tracheal atresia	A congenital absence or considerable underdevelopment of the trachea such that communication between the larynx proximally and the alveoli of the lungs distally is lacking. [HPO:probinson, PMID:9776081]
bronchial atresia	A developmental anomaly characterised by focal obliteration of the proximal segment of a bronchus. The bronchial pattern is entirely normal distal to the site of stenosis. [UToronto:chum]
congenital lobar emphysema [ambiguous]	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
dolv - double outlet left ventricle	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
double outlet left ventricle	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
congenital insufficiency of the pulmonary valve (disorder)	Dysfunction of the pulmonary valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congenital hypoplasia of tricuspid valve	Congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve. [DDD:dbrown]
aortic atresia	A rare congenital heart defect characterized by the complete failure of the aortic valve to open. It is manifested during infancy with cyanosis, dyspnea, and rapidly progressing heart failure.
hypoplasia of right heart (disorder)	Underdevelopment of the right-sided structures of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of right heart	Underdevelopment of the right-sided structures of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
primary endocardial fibroelastosis (diagnosis)	Endocardial fibroelastosis unassociated with other cardiac abnormalities.
adult-type coarctation	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized proximal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the preductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital hypoplasia of aortic arch (disorder)	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
tubular aortic arch hypoplasia	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
aortic arch; double	A conenital abnormality of the aortic arch in which the two embryonic aortc arches form a vascular ring that surrounds the trachea or esophagus and then join to form the descending aorta. Double aortic arch can cause symptoms because of compression of the esophagus (dysphagia, cyanosis while eating) or trachea (stridor). [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:15148283, PMID:15564538]
aortic diverticulum	A patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring. [DDD:dbrown]
overriding aorta (diagnosis)	An overriding aorta is a congenital heart defect where the aorta is positioned directly over a ventricular septal defect, instead of over the left ventricle. The result is that the aorta receives some blood from the right ventricle, which reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood. It is one of the four conditions of the Tetralogy of Fallot. The aortic root can be displaced toward the front (anteriorly) or directly above the septal defect, but it is always abnormally located to the right of the root of the pulmonary artery. The degree of override is quite variable, with 5-95% of the valve being connected to the right ventricle. [HPO:curators]
fistula coronary artery	A congenital malformation with abnormal connection between one of the coronary arteries and a heart chamber or another blood vessel. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:20513726]
origin of left circumflex artery from right coronary artery	An abnormal origin of the left circumflex artery (LCX) from the right coronary artery. Normally, the left anterior descending (LAD) and the LCX arise from a common stem, the left main coronary artery (LMCA). [PMID:27358682]
pulmonary artery agenesis	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
missing pulmonary artery	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
congenital atresia of pulmonary artery (disorder)	A congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of pulmonary artery (diagnosis)	Underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly nos of pulmonary veins	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
congenital anomaly of pulmonary veins	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
anomaly of the pulmonary veins, unspecified	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
pv - pulmonary vein abnormality	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
congenital anomaly of pulmonary veins (disorder)	Aberrant drainage of one or more of the pulmonary veins which causes the return of oxygen-rich blood to the right atrium.
left sided superior vena cava	A rare congenital vascular anomaly that results when the left superior cardinal vein caudal to the innominate vein fails to regress. [PMID:18847480]
erythrokeratoderma variabilis (disorder)	An autosomal dominant skin disease characterized by transient and variable noninflammatory ERYTHEMA and hyperkeratosis. It has been associated with mutations in the genes that code for CONNEXINS. Erythrokeratodermia variabilis inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion has also been reported. Affected individuals often develop PALMOPLANTAR KERATODERMA.
netherton disease	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
netherton's syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
zinsser-cole-engmann syndrome	A predominantly X-linked recessive syndrome characterized by a triad of reticular skin pigmentation, nail dystrophy and leukoplakia of mucous membranes. Oral and dental abnormalities may also be present. Complications are a predisposition to malignancy and bone marrow involvement with pancytopenia. (from Int J Paediatr Dent 2000 Dec;10(4):328-34) The X-linked form is also known as Zinsser-Cole-Engman syndrome and involves the gene which encodes a highly conserved protein called dyskerin.
witkop-von sallman syndrome	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with variable penetrance. It was initially described among Native Americans belonging to the Haliwa-Saponi tribe of northeastern North Carolina. It is caused by a duplication of chromosomal DNA at 4q35. Clinical signs present in early childhood and include asymptomatic plaques of the epibulbar conjunctivae and oral mucosa. Clinical progression of the plaques to malignancy has not been reported.
birthmark	<p>Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html">Pigmented</a> birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/moles.html">Moles</a> can be birthmarks.</p> <p>No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery. </p> <p>Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider.</p>
anemicus nevus	A congenital skin lesion characterized by irregular hypopigmented macules that coalesce to form plaques and occur particularly on the chest. It is generally present at birth or develops in the first days of life. It is more common in females. Diagnosis is confirmed by applying gentle friction to the lesion and the surrounding skin and checking that the erythema produced in the healthy skin does not appear in the hypopigmented lesion. This pale macule becomes more conspicuous when the lesion and its surroundings are rubbed. The margin of the naevus is ill-defined and consists of an archipelago of small anaemic spots. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
mongolian spots were observed	Ett blågrått till gråbrunt, godartat, melanocytiskt nevus som oftast påträffas i lumbosakralregionen hos mörkhyade människor, särskilt dem av östasiatiskt ursprung. Födelsemärket är vanligtvis medfött eller uppträder kort efter födseln, och försvinner under barndomstiden.
acneiform nevus	A type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged, dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones. [PMID:23888253]
pilosebaceous naevoid disorder	A type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged, dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones. [PMID:23888253]
subungual fibroma (disorder)	The presence of fibromata beneath finger or toenails. [HPO:curators]
congenital hypoplasia of breast	A disorder characterized by underdevelopment of the breast.
unspecified congenital anomaly of digestive system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
congenital deformity of digestive system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
digestive congenital anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
congenital deformity nos of digestive system nos	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
mulberry molar (physical finding)	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
enamel; pearls	Small nodules of enamel on the root of a tooth. [PMID:31468724]
megadontia	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
cone shaped tooth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
hypoplasia of cementum (disorder)	The decrease or absence of cementum. The cementum anchors the periodontal ligament attachment fiber between the tooth root and the alveolar bone. Its absence leads to early loss of teeth. [PMID:31468724]
precocious dentition	Premature tooth eruption, which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 SD earlier than the mean eruption age. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
apertognathia malocclusion	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
bite; open	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
open bite, nos	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
cheilognathoschisis (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip and upper jaw.
cheilognathoschisis (disorder)	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip and upper jaw.
cheilognathouranoschisis (disorder)	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip, hard and/or soft palate and upper jaw.
cleft upper lip, upper jaw and palate	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip, hard and/or soft palate and upper jaw.
ndc	A non-odontogenic cyst of developmental origin that arises in the midline of the anterior maxilla. It is found exclusively in the midline of the anterior hard palate. (WHO 2017)
glossoschisis	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
agenesis; uvula	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
absent palatine uvula	Lack of the uvula. [PMID:19125428]
congenital anomaly of esophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformation of esophagus, unspecified	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital abnormality of oesophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
duplication of esophagus (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the esophagus. The duplicated segment may by tubular or cystic.
microgastria	A developmental anomaly wtih a small tubular or saccular midline stomach. [PMID:10067744]
congenital duplication of intestine	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the intestine. The duplicated segment is cystic.
duplication of bowel	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the intestine. The duplicated segment is cystic.
atresia of small intestine, unspecified (disorder)	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
atresia of small intestine	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
congenital atresia of small intestine (disorder)	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
congenital atresia of duodenum	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the duodenum.
jejunal atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the jejunum.
megaloduodenum	Dilation and elongation of the duodenum with hypertrophy of all layers of the duodenum. []
persistent cloaca	A congenital abnormality in which the rectum, vagina, and urethra fuse and form a common channel.
ectopic anus (disorder)	Abnormal displacement or malposition of the anus. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder anomalies	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
congenital abnormal forms gallbladder	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder anomaly congenital	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
deformity; gallbladder	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of pancreas	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
pancreas divisum (disorder)	A congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development. Three variants have been described: type 1 or classical divisum in which there is total failure of fusion; type 2 in which dorsal drainage is dominant in the absence of the duct of Wirsung; and type 3 or incomplete divisum where a small communicating branch is present. [PMID:24265565]
ectopic thyroid tissue	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
ectopic thyroid gland	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
sublingual thyroid gland	Ett tillstånd som kännetecknas av förekomst av rudimentär sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Det beror på misslyckad embryonal utveckling och migrering av sköldkörtelvävnad till dess normala plats. Tungsköldkörteln kan vanligtvis inte upprätthålla en tillräcklig hormonproduktion, vilket leder till hypotyreos.
persistent thyroglossal or thyrolingual duct	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
persistent thyroglossal duct	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
kidney malformation	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
congenital kidney anomaly nos	An abnormality of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
renal hypoplasia, unspecified	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
fused kidneys	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
congenital hydronephrosis	Collection of urine in the renal pelvis that results in dilatation of the renal pelvis and calyces that is present at birth.
megacalycosis (disorder)	Isolated enlargement of renal calyces without obstruction.
atresia of ureter	A developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen (tube) of the ureter. [HPO:probinson]
ureteral atresia	A developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen (tube) of the ureter. [HPO:probinson]
urethral valve	The presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra. [HPO:probinson]
patent urachus (disorder)	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
patent urachus	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
genitalia external ambiguous	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
ovarian agenesis	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
streak ovaries	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
extra; oviduct	The presence of a supernumerary Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23532389]
uterine anomalies	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomalies uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
anomalies congenital uterine	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterus heart-shaped	The presence of a bicornuate uterus. [HPO:probinson]
unicornuate uterus (diagnosis)	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
pubescent uterus	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital abnormality of uterus hypoplasia	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
imperforate vagina (disorder)	Embryologic remnant consisting of a persistent connective tissue membrane within the vaginal vault.
labial adhesion	Synechia vulvae (adhesions of the labia minora) are characterized by a complete or partial fusion of the labia minora in the midline. [PMID:17364294, PMID:29262197]
46,xy sex reversal 11	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
absent vas deferens	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of vas deferens	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
congenital anomaly of brain	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
congenital brain anomaly	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
encephalomeningocele	Herniation of brain and meninges through a cranial opening. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
lissencephaly	A smooth brain malformation of the CEREBRAL CORTEX resulting from the abnormal location of developing neurons during corticogenesis. It is characterized by an absence of normal convoluted indentations on the surface of the brain (agyria), or fewer and shallower indentations (pachygryia). There is a reduced number of cortical layers, typically 4 instead of 6, resulting in a thickened cortex, and reduced cerebral white matter that is a reversal of the normal ratio of cerebral white matter to cortex.
colloid cysts of third ventricle	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
paraphyseal cyst	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
colloid cyst third ventricle	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
schizencephalic clefts	A rare developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of clefs in the cerebral hemispheres. The abnormality may involve one or both cerebral hemispheres. Signs and symptoms include developmental delays, mental retardation, paralysis, presence of a small head, and seizures.
schizencephalic porencephaly	A rare developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of clefs in the cerebral hemispheres. The abnormality may involve one or both cerebral hemispheres. Signs and symptoms include developmental delays, mental retardation, paralysis, presence of a small head, and seizures.
glioma nasal	A collection of heterotopic neuroglial tissue which is isolated from the cranial cavity, usually located in or around the nose. Complete excision is curative.
gray matter heterotopias	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
congenital spinal anomaly spina bifida rachischisis	Rachischisis is a neural tube defect, which occurs when the neural folds do not join at the midline and the undifferentiated neuroectoderm remains exposed.
oligophrenia microphthalmus	A rare, X-linked recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the NPD gene. It is characterized by developmental retinal abnormalities that result in blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. Additional manifestations include progressive hearing loss and developmental motor skills delays.
anomaly; axenfeld	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
axenfeld; anomaly or syndrome	Axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent, anteriorly displaced Schwalbe's line (posterior embryotoxon) and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to Schwalbe's line. [HPO:probinson]
persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous (disorder)	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
persistent posterior foetal fibrovascular sheath of the lens	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
congenital eyelid deformity nos	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
eyelid; deformity, congenital	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital eyelid deformity nos (disorder)	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital anomalies of eyelid	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital eyelid deform	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital ptosis (disorder)	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
congenital ptosis (diagnosis)	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
ablepharon - absent eyelids	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
accessory; eyelid	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
congenital anomaly ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
ear; anomaly	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital ear malformation nos	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity of ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
congenital malformation of the neck	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
neck-congenital anomaly	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of neck, nos	An abnormality of the neck. [HPO:probinson]
branchial sinus	A congenital branchial sinus is a remnant of the embryonic branchial arches and their intervening clefts and pouches that has failed to regress completely. Sinuses typically have their external orifice inferior to the ramus of the mandible. They may traverse the parotid gland, and run in close vicinity to the facial nerve in the external auditory canal. [HPO:sdoelken]
branchial vestiges	A congenital branchial sinus is a remnant of the embryonic branchial arches and their intervening clefts and pouches that has failed to regress completely. Sinuses typically have their external orifice inferior to the ramus of the mandible. They may traverse the parotid gland, and run in close vicinity to the facial nerve in the external auditory canal. [HPO:sdoelken]
polysplenia	Homogeneous organ, each instance of which is a connected or detached part or enclave of some spleen.
spleen; aberrant	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
ectopia of the spleen	An abnormal (non-anatomic) location of the spleen. [HPO:curators]
situs inversus thoracis (disorder)	A congenital condition in which there is complete right-to-left reversal of the position of the thoracic organs.
cyclops	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
amyelencephalus	Congenital absence of the spinal cord and brain
cebocephalus (disorder)	Two orbital cavities and two eyes present, the region between being narrowed. Expected skeletal alterations include fused frontonasal and/or maxillary bones and incisors. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
meckel diverticulitis	Inflammation of a congenital diverticulum of the lower intestine.
steroid 5-alpha-reductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
partial androgen insensitivity syndrome	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
hypermethioninemia, isolated persistent	A metabolic disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MAT1A gene. Affected individuals usually do not have clinical abnormalities.
simple renal cyst	A homogenous cyst located in the kidney.
inspissated bile syndrome	A syndrome characterized by persistent jaundice, hemolytic anemia, and hepatomegaly in a newborn. It is characterized by the presence of inspissated bile plugs in the bile ducts.
dystrophy; oculopharyngeal	En autosomalt dominant, ärftlig sjukdom som debuterar sent i livet och vars kännetecken är sväljningssvårigheter och tilltagande ögonlocksnedfall. Mutationer i genen för poly(A)-bindande protein II har satts i samband med okulofaryngeal muskeldystrofi.
infant; floppy baby syndrome	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
'floppy' infants	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
lingual goitre	Sjuklig förstoring av lingual tyreoidea, ektopisk sköldkörtelvävnad vid tungroten. Tillståndet kan ge upphov till luftvägshinder, sväljningssvårigheter eller hypertyreossymtom.
sds	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
indeterminate sex (finding)	Outer genital organs are not visually male or female.
aplasia cutis congenita, nonsyndromic	Localized or widespread congenital absence of skin. The lesions most frequently occur in the scalp, are well demarcated, may be superficial or deep, and are not associated with inflammation.
cyst; gingiva	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
cryptophthalmos (disorder)	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
congenital arteriovenous shunt	structural anomaly present at birth which allows direct passage of blood from an artery to a vein.
triploid	A very rare congenital syndrome characterized by the presence of three haploid sets of chromosomes. The surviving infants have multiple severe birth defects.
optic nerve hypoplasia (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
hypoplasia of optic nerve	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
optic nerve hypoplasia, unspecified eye	A congenital abnormality characterized by the underdevelopment of the optic nerve.
septo-optic dysplasia with growth hormone deficiency	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
eyelids stuck together	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
eyelid synechiae	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
corneal dystrophy posterior polymorphous	This corneal dystrophy affects the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea and is characterized by polymorphous plaques of calcium deposits in the deep stromal layers of the cornea, and occasionally by vesicular lesions of the endothelium and edema of the deep corneal stroma. [HPO:probinson]
polymorphous corneal dystrophy	This corneal dystrophy affects the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea and is characterized by polymorphous plaques of calcium deposits in the deep stromal layers of the cornea, and occasionally by vesicular lesions of the endothelium and edema of the deep corneal stroma. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of lens	Any anatomic abnormality or physiologic dysfunction of the lens of the eye that is present at the time of birth.
lens; deformity, congenital	Any anatomic abnormality or physiologic dysfunction of the lens of the eye that is present at the time of birth.
hereditary deafness	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
deafness; congenital	complete loss of the ability to hear from both ears since birth, regardless of causation.
congenital complete heart block	A disorder characterized by an electrocardiographic finding of a complete atrioventricular block that manifests during fetal life or soon after birth. It may be isolated or associated with other congenital heart defects. Isolated congenital complete atrioventricular block may be associated with maternal connective tissue disorders.
anomaly; capillary	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
hemangiomatosis, familial pulmonary capillary	An autosomal recessive subtype of primary pulmonary hypertension which has histological characteristics of widespread fibrous intimal proliferation of septal veins and preseptal venules. There is frequent association with pulmonary capillary dilatation and proliferation and the disease can cause occult alveolar haemorrhage.
cyst; periodontal, lateral	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral periodontal jaw cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral periodontal cyst of jaw	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
lateral periodontal; cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst lined by non-keratinized epithelium, occurring on the lateral aspect or between the roots of erupted teeth. (WHO 2017)
congenital lipoid hyperplasia of adrenal cortex with male pseudohermaphroditism	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
nettleship-falls type ocular albinism	An X-linked inherited disorder caused by mutations in the GPR143 gene. It is characterized by reduced visual acuity and reduced stereoscopic vision. Other abnormalities include nystagmus, strabismus, and photophobia.
benign congenital hypotonia (disorder) [ambiguous]	Mild hypotonia that usually appears early in infancy and has a favorable outcome. It is not a manifestation of another disorder that may cause hypotonia (e.g., cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy).
posterior lenticonus	A conical projection of the posterior surface of the lens, occurring as a developmental anomaly. [DDD:gblack]
absence of sacrum (diagnosis)	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
sacral agenesis	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of eyelid	Developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid. [GOC:MG]
blepharophimosis, congenital	A decrease in size of opening of the eye, not due to eyelid fusion, but rather lateral displacement of the inner canthi
blepharophimosis; congenital	A decrease in size of opening of the eye, not due to eyelid fusion, but rather lateral displacement of the inner canthi
epiblepharon (disorder)	Redundant eyelid skin pressing the eyelashes against the cornea and/or conjunctiva. [PMID:19125427]
alacrima (dry eye syndrome)	Absence of tear secretion. [HPO:probinson]
imperforate nasolacrimal ducts	A developmental disorder of the lacrimal drainage system that most often affects the lacrimal ostium and resulting in non-opening of the nasolacrimal duct. It usually results from a non-canalization of the nasolacrimal duct. [HPO:probinson]
coloboma lens	A sectoral indentation of the crystalline lens, usually due to zonular weakness or absence. [HPO:probinson]
cornea; plana	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
(congenital megalocornea) or (enlarged cornea) or (congenital macrocornea)	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
macrocornea	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
hypoplasia of iris (disorder)	Congenital underdevelopment of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
multiple pupils	Multiple pupils. [DDD:ncarter]
irido-corneo-trabecular dysgenesis (disorder)	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal atrioventricular connection (disorder)	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between atria and ventricles. [DDD:dbrown]
discordant atrioventricular connection (disorder)	Connection of the right atrium to the left ventricle and of the left atrium to the right ventricle in a biventricular heart. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:23804932]
correct transpos grt ves	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
corrected transposition, congenitally	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
congenitally corrected transposition of great arteries	The essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo-arterial connections. Thus, the morphologically right atrium is connected to a morphologically left ventricle across the mitral valve, with the left ventricle then connected to the pulmonary trunk. The morphologically left atrium is connected to the morphologically right ventricle across the tricuspid valve, with the morphologically right ventricle connected to the aorta. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:21569592]
double inlet right ventricle (disorder)	The condition in which both atria are joined to the right ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually, the left ventricle is hypoplastic. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
double inlet left ventricle (diagnosis)	The condition in which both atria are joined to the left ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve. Usually there is a hypoplastic right ventricle, which may be on the opposite side of the heart as usual. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
absent right sided atrioventricular connection (disorder)	A defect where there is no connection between the right atrium and right ventricle. [PMID:7104116]
absent left sided atrioventricular connection	A defect where there is no connection between the left atrium and left ventricle. [PMID:7104116]
superior vena caval duplication	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
svc, bilateral	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
coronary sinus abnormality (disorder)	An abnormality of the coronary sinus, which is formed by the union of the great cardiac vein and the left marginal vein and terminates in the right atrium. The coronary sinus functions to o collect deoxygenated blood from the myocardium of the heart and drain it into the right atrium. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
congenital portosystemic venous shunt	A congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt (by-pass) of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava (i.e., the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver). [HPO:probinson]
divided right atrium	A congenital anomaly with partitioning of the right atrium to form a triatrial heart caused by persistence of the right valve of the sinus venosus. Typically, the right atrial partition is due to exaggerated fetal eustachian and thebesian valves, which together form an incomplete septum across the lower part of the atrium. This septum may range from a reticulum to a substantial sheet of tissue. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:17948095]
abnormal atrial septum morphology	An abnormality of the interatrial septum. [HPO:probinson]
partial atrioventricular canal	An ostium primum atrial septal defect is located in the most anterior and inferior aspect of the atrial septum. The ostium primum refers to an anterior and inferior opening (ostium) within the septum primum, which divides the rudimentary atrium during fetal development. The ostium primum is normally sealed by fusion of the superior and inferior endocardial cushions around 5 weeks' gestation. Ostium primum defects result from a failure of the fusion of the embryologic endocardial cushion and septum primum. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
absent tricuspid leaflet (disorder)	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
unguarded tricuspid valve	A form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which (although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists) there is no tricuspid valvular tissue. [PMID:14246338, UToronto:chum]
congenital atresia of mitral valve (disorder)	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
right cardiac ventricular dilatation	Enlargement of the chamber of the right ventricle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17715105]
left ventricular abnormality (disorder)	Any structural abnormality of the left ventricle of the heart. [HPO:probinson]
lvot anomaly	An abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; right heart syndrome	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
right hypoplastic heart syndrome	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
bicuspid pulmonary valve	The presence of a bicuspid pulmonary valve. [HPO:probinson]
quadricuspid aortic valve disease	The presence of an aortic valve with four instead of the normal three cusps (flaps). [PMID:27390747]
origin of right pulmonary artery from ascending aorta	The right pulmonary artery originates from the ascending aorta in the presence of a pulmonary valve and main pulmonary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
left hemitruncus	The left pulmonary artery originates from the ascending aorta in the presence of a pulmonary valve and main pulmonary artery. [DDD:dbrown]
aorto left ventricular tunnel	Aorto-left ventricular tunnel (ALVT) is a congenital extracardiac channel connecting the ascending aorta above the sino-tubular junction to either left ventricular cavity. [PMID:26085759]
aortic-right ventricular tunnels	The presence of an extracardiac channel that connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the right ventricle. [PMID:27525240]
aorta to right ventricle tunnel (disorder)	The presence of an extracardiac channel that connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the right ventricle. [PMID:27525240]
cervical aortic arch (disorder)	The aortic arch extends into the soft tissues of the neck before turning down into to become the descending aorta. [DDD:dbrown]
kinking of descending aorta	Pseudocoarctation is a congenital anomaly of kinking, or buckling, of the aorta without a pressure gradient across the lesion. It is characterized by elongation and kinking of the aorta at the level of the ligamentum arteriosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17593995, PMID:18651460]
interrupted aortic arch distal to left subclavian artery (disorder)	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment at the level of the isthmus. [DDD:dbrown]
interrupted aortic arch type a	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment at the level of the isthmus. [DDD:dbrown]
interrupted aortic arch, type b	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
type b interrupted aortic arch	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
interrupted aortic arch type c	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the innominate and left carotid arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital dysmotility of small intestine (disorder)	Abnormal small intestinal contractions, such as spasms and intestinal paralysis related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes. [HPO:probinson]
small intestinal dysmotility	Abnormal small intestinal contractions, such as spasms and intestinal paralysis related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes. [HPO:probinson]
large intestine atresia	A malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the large intestine.
short segment hirschsprung's disease	The most common form of Hirschsprung Disease, this is characterized by a lack of nerve cells in the sigmoid colon and rectum. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
hypoplastic vagina	Developmental hypoplasia of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
cyst of hydatid of morgagni	A cyst that is attached to the fallopian tube and originates from the remnants of the Mullerian duct.
duplication; penis	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
congenital phimosis (disorder)	The male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis. [HPO:sdoelken]
discoid kidney	Ren discoides - ledvina koláčová (ren fungiformis, scutulatus) ledviny jsou srostlé celou mediální plochou ve společný okrouhlý útvar (obě ledviny splynuly v jediný orgán).
hypoplasia of the lower limbs	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of spine (disorder)	Small, underdeveloped vertebral bodies. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of spine	Small, underdeveloped vertebral bodies. [HPO:probinson]
osteopetrosis, autosomal recessive 3	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutation in the CA2 gene. It is characterized by osteopetrosis, renal tubular acidosis, and cerebral calcifications. It results in growth failure, mental retardation, and fractures.
congenital livedo reticularis (disorder)	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
ferguson-smith tumor	A rare genetic neoplastic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance characterized by multiple, recurrent skin cancers that spontaneously resolve. It has been described almost exclusively in families of Scottish origin. It is caused by a mutation in the tumor-suppressing gene, TGFBR1, on chromosome 9. Clinical presentation is usually rapidly growing squamous cell carcinomas or keratoacanthomas that primarily localize to sun-exposed areas. Appearance of the neoplasms occurs over several weeks before receding over the course of several months if untreated. The regression of the lesions leaves pitting cicatrices but no other known sequelae.
arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia	A congenital cardiomyopathy that is characterized by infiltration of adipose and fibrous tissue into the RIGHT VENTRICLE wall and loss of myocardial cells. Primary injuries usually are at the free wall of right ventricular and right atria resulting in ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias.
gingival granular cell tumor	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
congenital gingival granular cell tumor	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
epulis congen	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
one sided cleft upper lip	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on one side only. [HPO:probinson]
mosaicism (morphologic abnormality)	The occurrence of 2 or more cell lines with different genetic or chromosomal make-up, within a single individual or tissue.
mosaicism nos (disorder)	The occurrence of 2 or more cell lines with different genetic or chromosomal make-up, within a single individual or tissue.
robert syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
common atrium (disorder)	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
accessory tooth cusp	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
malocc-angle's class iii	Malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar (mesioclusion).
congenital finnish nephrosis	Nephrotic syndrome attributed to mutation(s) in the NPHS1 gene, which encodes the protein nephrin, and most commonly presents during the first three months of life.
cnf - finnish congenital nephrotic syndrome	Nephrotic syndrome attributed to mutation(s) in the NPHS1 gene, which encodes the protein nephrin, and most commonly presents during the first three months of life.
vas deferens, congenital bilateral aplasia of	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
autosomal recessive anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia	An autosomal recessive form of ectodermal dysplasia which is due to mutations in the gene for the EDAR RECEPTOR or EDAR-ASSOCIATED DEATH DOMAIN PROTEIN.
odontotrichomelic syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
hypoplastic enamel-onycholysis-hypohidrosis syndrome	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It is associated with mutations in the MSX-1 gene on chromosome 4 which alter ectodermal morphogenesis. Characteristic clinical signs include absent or poorly-formed dentition and brittle, spoon-shaped finger and toenails. Clinical course features an increased incidence of dental caries but is essentially benign.
epilepsy, dementia, and amelogenesis imperfecta	Ameliogenesis imperfecta, mental retardation, and epileptic seizures
mutilating palmoplantar hyperkeratosis with periorificial keratotic plaques	A hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma with characteristics of the combination of bilateral mutilating transgredient palmoplantar keratoderma and periorificial keratotic plaques.
symmetrical dyschromatosis of extremities	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by heterozygous mutation in the DSRAD gene. Most cases have been reported from countries in East Asia. It is characterized by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules on the dorsal aspect of the extremities and face.
reticulate acropigmentation of dohi	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by heterozygous mutation in the DSRAD gene. Most cases have been reported from countries in East Asia. It is characterized by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules on the dorsal aspect of the extremities and face.
eccrine angiomatous nevus	A rare, congenital skin lesion consisting of a proliferation of eccrine glands with a vascular stroma. It presents as a flesh-colored, hyperhidrotic, painful papule or plaque appearing at birth or during childhood.
papillary; syringadenoma	A benign adnexal neoplasm occurring during childhood or adolescence. It usually presents as a papular lesion or a plaque on the head and neck. It may arise in an organoid nevus such as sebaceous. It is characterized by an endophytic invagination of the epithelium into the dermis. There are dermal cystic spaces present, containing villous projections. Complete excision is curative.
hamartoma moniliformis	A type of pilosebaceous hamartoma characterized by the development of a linear, flesh colored, fine papular eruption on the head, neck and upper chest after puberty.
muscular dystrophy due to defective glycosylation of dystroglycan 4a	An autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the gene encoding fukutin (FKTN). It is associated with characteristic brain and eye malformations, seizures, and mental retardation.
rss	An inherited muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the SEPN1 gene. It is characterized by severe limitation in flexion of the dorsolumbar and cervical spine, due to contracture of the spinal extensors. It leads to loss of movement of the spine and the thoracic cage.
emery-dreifuss syndrome	Heterogenní skupina dědičných svalových dystrofií bez postižení nervového systému. Onemocnění je charakterizované atrofií a slabostí svalů, svalovými kontrakturami v oblasti lokte a podél páteře, zkrácením Achillových šlach a případným kardiálním postižením. Podle typů dědičnosti se vyskytuje několik forem: forma vázaná na X chromozom, forma autozomálně dominantní a forma autozomálně recesivní.
benign scapuloperoneal muscular dystrophy with cardiomyopathy	Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and caused by mutations in the LMNA gene.
x-linked myotubular myopathy	An X-linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. Primarily it affects males. Female carriers are usually asymptomatic. It is characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and hypotonia. The muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe. Newborns with severe X-linked centronuclear myopathy develop respiratory distress which may lead to respiratory failure requiring constant ventilator assistance. Patients with mild X-linked centronuclear myopathy usually require ventilator support during the newborn period only.
distichiasis (double row of eyelashes)	Double rows of eyelashes. [HPO:probinson]
eyes close together	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
congenital hypoplasia of clavicle	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
lumbar myelocele	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
cervical myelocele (disorder)	Herniation of spinal cord tissue and meninges through a defect in the cervical region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
septum pellucidum agenesis	Absence of the septum pellucidum. [HPO:probinson]
lissencephaly type 1s	A genetic disorder caused by mutations in the LIS1, XLIS, or TUBA1A genes. It results in brain malformation characterized by the underdevelopment or absence of gyri or ridges in the cerebral cortex. Signs and symptoms include epilepsy and mental retardation.
type i lissencephaly	A genetic disorder caused by mutations in the LIS1, XLIS, or TUBA1A genes. It results in brain malformation characterized by the underdevelopment or absence of gyri or ridges in the cerebral cortex. Signs and symptoms include epilepsy and mental retardation.
cobblestone dysplasias	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
lissencephaly type 002	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
congenital malformation brain cortical dysplasia	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
colpocephaly	Colpocephaly is an anatomic finding in the brain manifested by occipital horns that are disproportionately enlarged in comparison with other parts of the lateral ventricles. [PMID:4058748]
congenital malformation brain colpocephaly	Colpocephaly is an anatomic finding in the brain manifested by occipital horns that are disproportionately enlarged in comparison with other parts of the lateral ventricles. [PMID:4058748]
macrocephaly, unilateral	Rare MALFORMATIONS OF CORTICAL DEVELOPMENT, GROUP I characterized by the enlargement of one side of the brain. It is associated with seizures, partial paralysis, and mental retardation.
aniridia, partial-cerebellar ataxia-oligophrenia	A rare congenital neurological disorder with characteristics of the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non-progressive cerebellar ataxia and intellectual disability. Aniridia is visible at birth as fixed dilated pupils. Non-progressive cerebellar ataxia is associated with delayed developmental milestones and hypotonia, gait and balance disorders with incoordination, intention tremor and scanning speech. Sporadic and familial cases have been observed.
aniridia, cerebellar ataxia, intellectual disability syndrome	A rare congenital neurological disorder with characteristics of the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non-progressive cerebellar ataxia and intellectual disability. Aniridia is visible at birth as fixed dilated pupils. Non-progressive cerebellar ataxia is associated with delayed developmental milestones and hypotonia, gait and balance disorders with incoordination, intention tremor and scanning speech. Sporadic and familial cases have been observed.
gillespie syndrome	A rare congenital neurological disorder with characteristics of the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non-progressive cerebellar ataxia and intellectual disability. Aniridia is visible at birth as fixed dilated pupils. Non-progressive cerebellar ataxia is associated with delayed developmental milestones and hypotonia, gait and balance disorders with incoordination, intention tremor and scanning speech. Sporadic and familial cases have been observed.
aneurysm of the vein of galen	Gross dilatation of the vein of Galen, being fed by large anomalous vessel or vessels arising from the carotid or basilar circulation. [UToronto:chum]
eyes at different heights	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
unequal eye height	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
posteriorly-angulated ears	A type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation (the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head, and the inferior part of the ears towards the front). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
posteriorly rotated ears	A type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation (the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head, and the inferior part of the ears towards the front). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
bilateral ductus botalli	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
bilateral ductus arteriosus (diagnosis)	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
congenital anomaly artery abnormality ductus arteriosus bilateral	The presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus. [DDD:dbrown]
lobulated tongue (disorder)	Multiple indentations and/or elevations on the edge and/or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour. [PMID:19125428]
hamartoma of tongue (disorder)	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
tongue hamartoma	A benign (noncancerous) tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17667541]
bilateral cryptorchism	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testis, bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
nondescent; testicle, bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
cryptorchism; bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
testicle; maldescent bilateral	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
cryptorchidism, bilateral (disorder)	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testicle, unilateral (diagnosis)	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
udt - undescended testis unilateral	Absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
penis webbing	Ventral skinfold extending from penis to scrotum. [PMID:23650202]
bilateral renal hypoplasia	Two sided hypoplasia of the kidney. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
renal cysts and diabetes syndrome	Monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation(s) in the gene HNF1B, encoding hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-beta. In addition to diabetes, this condition may be associated with renal cysts and urogenital anomalies. Homozygous HNF1B mutations result in permanent neonatal diabetes.
bilateral renal dysplasia	A finding of congenital malformations in both kidneys characterized by the presence of cysts of various sizes, primitive ducts, islands of metaplastic cartilage and undifferentiated mesenchyme, and the absence of cortico-medullary demarcation.
hemiatrophy of upper limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of an arm. [HPO:probinson]
congenital abnormal fusion of carpal bone	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
fused carpal bones	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
hitch-hiker thumb	With the hand relaxed and the thumb in the plane of the palm, the axis of the thumb forms an angle of at least 90 degrees with the long axis of the hand. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
short thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hypoplastic thumb(s)	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
hemiatrophy of lower limb (disorder)	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
congenital deformity undergrowth of lower limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of a leg. [HPO:probinson]
lower extremity deformities, congenital	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
congenital anomaly of lower limb (disorder)	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
lower limb anomaly, unspecified (disorder)	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
congenital anomaly of lower limb	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
lobster claw foot	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
triphalangeal hallux	A hallux (big toe) with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. [PMID:19760621, PMID:22486404]
congenital deformity triphalangeal great toe	A hallux (big toe) with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. [PMID:19760621, PMID:22486404]
cleft maxillary alveolus	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft primary palate	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft of primary palate	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
cleft of soft palate	Cleft of the soft palate (also known as the velum, or muscular palate) as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy. Cleft soft palate can cause functional abnormalities of the Eustachian tube with resulting middle ear anomalies and hearing difficulties, as well as speech problems associated with hypernasal speech due to velopharyngeal insufficiency. [HPO:curators]
submucosal cleft palate	Hard-palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. It may be possible to detect a submucous cleft hard palate upon palpation as a notch in the bony palate. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19779505]
congenital lumbosacral spondylolysis	A defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch of a lumbar or sacral vertebra that is present at the time of birth.
lumbosacr spondylolysis	A defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch of a lumbar or sacral vertebra that is present at the time of birth.
abnormal spinal segmentation	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
defect of vertebral segmentation	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
trps1	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
ibs	An autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis characterized by generalized reddening of the skin (ERYTHEMA) and widespread blistering. The disease shows similar, but somewhat milder, clinical and histopathological findings to those in HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC and is associated with the gene that encodes KERATIN-2A.
epidermolysis bullosa, pretibial	A type of blistering that affects the skin of the tibial region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15265795]
anomaly; dermatoglyphic	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
dermatoglyphic anomaly	An abnormality of dermatoglyphs (fingerprints), which are present on fingers, palms, toes, and soles. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of nipple	Underdevelopment of the nipple. [HPO:probinson]
trisomy 10 (disorder)	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 10 in somatic cells.
chromosome 9, trisomy	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 9 in somatic cells.
trisomy 8 (diagnosis)	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 8 in somatic cells.
syndrome 18p	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the deletion of the short arm of chromosome 18. It is associated with mental and growth retardation, prominent ears and ptosis.
18p- syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the deletion of the short arm of chromosome 18. It is associated with mental and growth retardation, prominent ears and ptosis.
deletion of long arm of chromosome 18	A condition in which some or all of the cells of the body contain extra genetic material from chromosome 18. Clinical features of this condition may include the following: spina bifida, hearing loss, cleft lip, cleft palate, undescended testes, rocker bottom feet, micrognathia, low set ears, cardiac anomalies (ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, tetralogy of Fallot), intellectual disability, holoprosencephaly, pituitary dysplasia, seizures, autoimmune disorders, hip dysplasia, and/or congenital cataracts.
18q deletion syndrome	A condition in which some or all of the cells of the body contain extra genetic material from chromosome 18. Clinical features of this condition may include the following: spina bifida, hearing loss, cleft lip, cleft palate, undescended testes, rocker bottom feet, micrognathia, low set ears, cardiac anomalies (ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, tetralogy of Fallot), intellectual disability, holoprosencephaly, pituitary dysplasia, seizures, autoimmune disorders, hip dysplasia, and/or congenital cataracts.
xy female	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XY and who is phenotypically female.
xx males	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XX and who is phenotypically male.
penis hypospadias penoscrotal	A severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
hypospadias, perineal (disorder)	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:8097257]
howel-evans' syndrome	Forma de queratodermia palmoplantar difusa que se produce entre los 5 y los 15 años de edad y que podría asociarse con el desarrollo ulterior de cáncer de esófago
diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma with esophageal cancer	Forma de queratodermia palmoplantar difusa que se produce entre los 5 y los 15 años de edad y que podría asociarse con el desarrollo ulterior de cáncer de esófago
linear eccrine nevus with comedones	A rare, congenital disorder of the eccrine sweat ducts that presents as grouped keratotic papules and plaques with a linear distribution and/or multiple punctate pits filled with tiny keratotic plugs resembling comedones. The lesion are usually located on the acral portion of a limb.
ectopic ureterocele (disorder)	A ureterocele in which some portion of the ureterocele is situated permanently at the bladder neck or in the urethra. The orifice may be situated in the bladder, at the bladder neck, or in the urethra. (Adapted from Glassberg KI, Braren V, Duckett JW, Jacobs EC, King LR, Lebowitz RL et al. Suggested terminology for duplex systems, ectopic ureters and ureteroceles. J Urol 1984; 132(6):1153-1154.)
basal cell nevus with comedones	A type of pilosebaceous hamartoma characterized by basal cell epitheliomata, epidermoid cysts and comedones, and epidermal atrophy.
congenital malformations of great arteries	Defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries. []
nervous system malformation	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
congenital malformation of nervous system, unspecified	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
nervous system congenital anomalies	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
malformations, nervous system, congenital	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
nervous system abnorm	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
neurologic abnormalities	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
nervous system malformations, congenital	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
nervous system abnormalities	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
hepatic arteriovenous malformation/hemangioma	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the liver.
arteriovenous malformation of the gastrointestinal tract, nos	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the gastrointestinal tract.
congenital arteriovenous malformation of retina	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the retina.
lid coloboma	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
ectopic cilia of eyelid	An eyelash that emerges from the underside (conjunctiva) of the upper or lower eyelid. [GOC:MG, http://www.eyecareforanimals.com/animal-eye-conditions/general/251-distichiasis-trichiasis-ectopic-cilia.html]
blue outer white part of eyeball	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
sclera; blue	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence kidney	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
congenital absence of kidney	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
congenital absence of kidney nos (disorder)	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
collagenous plaques of hands and feet	A developmental disorder characterized by keratotic papules of skin of hands and soles with disorganization of dermal elastic fibers that does not appear to be due to trauma or sunlight
congen fiber type disproportion	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
congenital fiber-type disproportions	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
fiber-type disproportion, congenital	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
cornea posterior embryotoxon	A posterior embryotoxon is the presence of a prominent and anteriorly displaced line of Schwalbe. [HPO:probinson]
posterior embryotoxon (disorder)	A posterior embryotoxon is the presence of a prominent and anteriorly displaced line of Schwalbe. [HPO:probinson]
fistula auris congenita	A pit or dimple in front of the ear of a newborn is a common finding; rarely, such a dimple may get infected, which will be manifested with redness and swelling and will require medical attention.
rectum; imperforate	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
imperforate; rectum	A developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum. That is, there is an abnormal closure, or atresia of the tubular structure of the rectum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20006038]
watson's syndrome	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
café-au-lait macules with pulmonary stenosis (disorder)	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
l5 sacralization	A congenital anomaly, in which the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra (L5) fuses to the sacrum on one side or both, or to ilium, or both. [UToronto:bgallinger]
epispadias, male (disorder)	Displacement of the urethral opening on the dorsal (superior) surface of the penis. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
epispadias (diagnosis)	Displacement of the urethral opening on the dorsal (superior) surface of the penis. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23650202]
duodenal web (diagnosis)	Partial or complete obstruction of the duodenal lumen due to the presence of a membranous web.
splenic aplasia	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
agenesis of spleen	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
incomplete mineralization of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
incomplete calcification of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
radial hypoplasia	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
hypoplastic radii	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
camptodactylia	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
congenital campylodactyly	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
short supernumerary rib	An extra rib at the cervicothoracic border with the distal extremity rounded, length less than one third of the length of the ossified portion of the first thoracic rib and no costal cartilage distal. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
ischium; deformity, congenital	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly of ischium	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal lung lobation (disorder)	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
mandible; agenesis	Absence of the mandible. [HPO:curators]
facial cleft	A congenital malformation with a cleft (gap or opening) in the face. [HPO:probinson]
holorachischisis (disorder)	Fissure of the entire spinal column. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
holorachischisis (diagnosis)	Fissure of the entire spinal column. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
microblephary	Abnormal shortness of the vertical dimensions of the eyelids. [http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/microblepharia]
nystagmus (& [congenital]) (disorder)	Nystagmus, který nastává při kongenitálních poruchách n. II., sítnice, popř. u vrozené slepoty. Je při něm n. kyvadlový s bifazickým nebo monofázickým rytmem. Funkce vestibulárního aparátu je neporušená. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2013 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/ )
acraniate monster (disorder)	Partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault. The condition is frequently, though not always, associated with anencephaly. [UToronto:chum]
cavus foot	The presence of an unusually high plantar arch. Also called high instep, pes cavus refers to a distinctly hollow form of the sole of the foot when it is bearing weight. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
congenital anomaly of upper limb, nos	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
upper limb anomaly, unspecified (disorder)	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
upper limb anomaly, unspecified	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
congenital anomaly of upper limb (disorder)	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
cm1	Arnold-Chiari type I malformation refers to a relatively mild degree of herniation of the posteroinferior region of the cerebellum (the cerebellar tonsils) into the cervical canal with little or no displacement of the fourth ventricle. [HPO:curators]
distal myopathy	En heterogen grupp genetiska sjukdomar som kännetecknas av fortskridande muskelatrofi och muskelsvaghet, med början i händerna, benen eller fötterna. De flesta är autosomalt dominanta former som debuterar vid vuxen ålder. Andra är autosomalt recessiva.
syndrome, shy-magee	Dědičný vrozený myopatický stav projevující se slabostí a hypotonií u kojenců a opožděný motorický vývoj. Svalová biopsie ukazuje kondenzaci myofibril a myofibrilárního materiálu ve střední části každého svalového vlákna.
cleft cysts, rathke's	Rathke's pouch cysts are rarely symptomatic in the first two decades of life though they may produce symptoms in the third and fourth decades of life. When the cysts do present in the first decades of life, the symptoms are generally associated with diabetes insipidus or other conditions related to hypopituitarism.
omphalocele (diagnosis)	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
partial 11q monosomy syndrome	A clinically recognized congenital malformation condition caused by a distal 11q deletion. The features of the syndrome are growth retardation, psychomotor retardation, trigonocephaly, divergent intermittent strabismus, epicanthus, telecanthus, broad nasal bridge, short nose with anteverted nostrils, carp-shaped upper lip, retrognathia, low-set dysmorphic ears, bilateral camptodactyly, and hammertoes. Platelet dysfunction is a feature in Paris-Trousseau type thrombocytopenia.
11q- deletion syndrome	A clinically recognized congenital malformation condition caused by a distal 11q deletion. The features of the syndrome are growth retardation, psychomotor retardation, trigonocephaly, divergent intermittent strabismus, epicanthus, telecanthus, broad nasal bridge, short nose with anteverted nostrils, carp-shaped upper lip, retrognathia, low-set dysmorphic ears, bilateral camptodactyly, and hammertoes. Platelet dysfunction is a feature in Paris-Trousseau type thrombocytopenia.
peters anomaly with short-limb dwarfism	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
lis2	Lissencephaly syndrome, Norman-Roberts type is the association of lissencephaly type I with craniofacial anomalies (severe microcephaly, a low sloping forehead, a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes) and postnatal growth retardation. Severe intellectual deficit, spasticity and epilepsy are also present. Mutations in the RELN gene (7q22) have been identified in some patients. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
intellectual disability/heart disea/blepharophimosis/blepharoptosis/hypoplastic teeth	A rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, ptosis, dental hypoplasia, hearing impairment and intellectual disability. Abnormal ears, microcephaly, and growth retardation have been reported occasionally. Male patients may show cryptorchidism and scrotal hypoplasia. Most reported cases are sporadic, except the original cases of Ohdo who described two affected sisters and a first cousin, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant, X-linked- and mitochondrial inheritance have also been suggested.
x-linked dandy-walker malformation with intellectual disability, basal ganglia disease and seizure syndrome	A rare, X-linked inherited syndrome characterized by mental retardation and additional features, which include choreoathetosis, hydrocephalus, Dandy-Walker malformation, seizures, and iron or calcium deposition in the brain.
dystrophy; becker	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
becker's disease	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
cerebral avm/h	An anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the brain. []
porokeratosis, mibelli	A clonal disorder of keratinization with one or multiple atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella. [HPO:skoehler]
diplomyelia (disorder)	Duplication of the spinal cord. [HPO:sdoelken]
testicular agenesis, bilateral	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral congenital aplasia of testicles	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of larynx	A congenital deformity in which there is no laryngeal structure.
congenital tracheal agenesis	Congenital absence of the trachea.
merosin-negative congenital muscular dystrophy	An autosomal recessive inherited congenital muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the LAMA2 gene. It is characterized by severe hypotonia, muscle weakness, elevated levels of serum creatinine kinase, and white matter abnormalities.
eccrine syringofibroadenoma of mascaro	A rare, benign eccrine neoplasm usually arising on acral areas as a solitary papular or nodular lesion. Multiple lesions are referred as syringofibroadenomatosis. It is characterized by the presence of epithelial cuboidal cells forming anastomosing cords in a fibrovascular stroma.
carpenter	An extremely rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by premature closure of cranial sutures leading to cone-shaped head, fusion of the digits, and the presence of more digits than normal. It may be associated with heart defects, single horseshoe-shaped kidney, short stature, undescended testes, and mild mental retardation.
great l transposition vessels	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery. []
d-transposition of the great vessels	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
dextro-transposition of the great vessels	A cyanotic congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the transposition of the aorta and the pulmonary artery.
congenital partial portal-systemic shunt (disorder)	Congenital portal-systemic shunt in which at least some portal blood perfuses the liver
abnormal tooth count	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
cyst; residual	Cysta, která zůstává v čelisti poté, co extrahujeme zub, na jehož kořeni se cysta vyvinula. Cysta se může zvětšovat bez přítomnosti zubu. Je to zvláštní forma radikulární cysty.
cleft lip and alveolus (diagnosis)	<p>Cleft lip & alveolus</p>
optic disc hypoplasia (disorder)	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplastic optic disks	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of optic disc	Underdevelopment of the optic disc, that is of the optic nerve head, where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve. [HPO:probinson]
transitional vertebra (disorder)	Una anomalía congénita de una vértebra en la cual presenta características de una estructura o región adyacente.
hyaloid corpuscle	This anomaly, also known as Mittendorf dot, is a benign, nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment. However, it can resemble a pathological congenital or acquired cataract lesion which may enlarge and cause visual impairment. The dot appears as a black speck that ranges in size from the dot made by a sharp pencil point to the size of a poppy seed. It is usually well defined, although occasionally there may be irregular, fine lines radiating outward from the dot. []
talipes, unspecified	A deformity of foot and ankle that has different subtypes that are talipes equinovarus, talipes equinovalgus, talipes calcaneovarus and talipes calcaneovalgus. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital fibrosis of extraocular muscles (cfeom)	Congenital non-progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions. Typically, there is ptosis and variable degrees of restriction of horizontal and vertical eye movements. [HPO:probinson]
euryblepharon (disorder)	Euryblepharon is a congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure. The eyelid is shortened vertically compared with the horizontal dimension, with associated lateral canthal malpositioning and lateral ectropion abnormally wide lid opening. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15249382, PMID:15530943, PMID:24719364]
congenital euryblepharon	Euryblepharon is a congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure. The eyelid is shortened vertically compared with the horizontal dimension, with associated lateral canthal malpositioning and lateral ectropion abnormally wide lid opening. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15249382, PMID:15530943, PMID:24719364]
microcoria, congenital	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
brachygnathism (disorder)	A malocclusion in which maxillary incisor and canine teeth project over the mandibular teeth excessively. The overlap is measured perpendicular to the occlusal plane and is also called vertical overlap. When the overlap is measured parallel to the occlusal plane it is referred to as overjet.
compression; facies	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetric facies	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetry; face	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
asymmetry of face	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
facial asymmetry (physical finding)	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
face; compression	Congenital or acquired asymmetry of the face.
severe osteopetrosis	A rare congenital disorder of bone resorption characterised by generalised skeletal densification. Bone marrow failure, fractures and visual impairment are the classical features of the disease, which begins in early infancy or in fetal life. It results from the failure of osteoclasts to resorb immature bone. This leads to abnormal bone marrow cavity formation and to the clinical signs and symptoms of bone marrow failure. It is accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly due to compensatory extramedullary hematopoiesis. The disease is heterogeneous. Over 50% of cases are due to mutations in the TCIRG1 gene and another 10% are due to mutations in the CLCN7 gene. A small number of patients have been described with mutations in the OSTM1 gene. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
congenital nevus of skin	A melanocytic nevus that is present at birth. It may present as a small macular, papular, or plaque-like lesion or as a large brown to black hairy skin lesion.
laryngo-onychocutaneous syndrome (disorder)	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
sertoli-cell-only syndrome	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
single umbilical artery (physical finding)	Congenital abnormality where one, instead of the usual two, UMBILICAL ARTERY connects the fetus to the placenta.
shovel-shaped incisor (disorder)	Incisor that has marked lateral borders occurring lingually.
chromosomal duplication	An aberration in which an extra chromosome or a chromosomal segment is made.
status bonnevie ullrich	Souhrnný název pro vrozené syndromy s pterygium colli, např. Turnerův syndrom, syndrom Noonanové aj. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
bonnevie-ullrich syndrome nos (disorder)	Souhrnný název pro vrozené syndromy s pterygium colli, např. Turnerův syndrom, syndrom Noonanové aj. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz/)
mmihs megacystis microcolon intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
megacystis, microcolon, hypoperistalsis syndrome (disorder)	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of an enlarged and weak bladder (megacystis), a very small large intestine (microcolon), and weak small intestine that does not function properly (hypoperistalsis). It is caused by a disorder of the smooth muscles of the abdomen and gastrointestinal tract.
penile hypospadias	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
lambdoidal craniosynostoses	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture. [HPO:probinson]
lambdoid suture synostosis	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture. [HPO:probinson]
congenital fissure of larynx	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
larnygeotracheoesophageal cleft	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
gms syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome involving goniodysgenesis, intellectual disability and short stature in addition to microcephaly, short nose, small hands and ears, and that has been seen in one family to date. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
congenital giant pigmented nevus of skin (disorder)	A rare melanocytic lesion occurring at birth, comprising at least 5% of the body surface area. It usually presents as a dark brown to black hairy lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of a compound or intradermal nevus. There is an increased risk of malignant transformation to melanoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and poorly differentiated malignant tumors.
1p36 deletion syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by the deletion of the distal band on the short arm of chromosome 1. It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance (microcephaly, deep set eyes, flat nose, and pointed chin), developmental abnormalities, mental retardation, seizures, hypotonia, hearing loss, and heart defects.
andre syndrome	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria	A type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that affects both sides of the brain. [COST:neuromig, PMID:20301504]
xeroderma pigmentosum, group e (disorder)	An autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the DDB2 gene. This disease exhibits the mildest degree of sun sensitivity of all xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups, although individuals are at high risk for skin cancer.
xeroderma pigmentosum group e	An autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the DDB2 gene. This disease exhibits the mildest degree of sun sensitivity of all xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups, although individuals are at high risk for skin cancer.
dandy walker malformation postaxial polydactyly	A syndromic disorder with the association between Dandy-Walker malformation and postaxial polydactyly as a major feature. The Dandy-Walker malformation has a variable expression and characteristics of a posterior fossa cyst communicating with the fourth ventricle, the partial or complete absence of the cerebellar vermis, and facultative hydrocephalus. Postaxial polydactyly includes tetramelic postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet with possible enlargement of the fifth metacarpal and metatarsal bones, as well as bifid fifth metacarpals.
craniotelencephalic dysplasia	Characterized by frontal encephalocele, craniosynostosis, and developmental delay.
hypothyroidism, dysmorphism, postaxial polydactyly, intellectual disability syndrome	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
sbbyss	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
congenital penoscrotal transposition (disorder)	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the partial or complete transposition of the penis and scrotum. In cases of complete penoscrotal transposition, the scrotum is positioned anteriorly and above the penis. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
congenital malformation brain agyria	A congenital abnormality of the cerebral hemisphere characterized by lack of gyrations (convolutions) of the cerebral cortex. Agyria is defined as cortical regions lacking gyration with sulci great than 3 cm apart and cerebral cortex thicker than 5 mm. [COST:neuromig]
whs	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
double outlet right ventricle, noncommitted ventricular septal defect	A subtype with ventricular septal defect clearly away from the semilunar valves of the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY.
double outlet right ventricle with noncommitted ventricular septal defect	A subtype with ventricular septal defect clearly away from the semilunar valves of the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY.
cryptotia	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
microgyria	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of abnormally small convolutions in the brain. It results in mental retardation.
xp, group c	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the XPC gene. This disease is characterized by increased sensitivity to sunlight with the development of carcinomas at an early age and is caused by a defect in nucleotide excision repair.
isolation of the left subclavian artery	The loss of continuity between the left subclavian artery and the aorta, with persistent connection to the homolateral pulmonary artery through the patent (PDA) or nonpatent ductus arteriosus. [MP:0011745]
disorder of sex development with intellectual disability syndrome	A rare association of malformations described in only three patients including two siblings. The first patient had profound intellectual deficit and clinical features including short stature, coarse face, deep-set eyes, microphthalmia, large ears, gynoid obesity, imperforate anus, sacral spina bifida, pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias, persistence of Mullerian structures, and low gonadotrophin levels. His XY sibling was raised as a girl, was slightly mentally impaired and had microphthalmia and large ears and short stature. The third patient had severe hearing loss, ocular colobomata, hypogonadism of central origin, distinct craniofacial features and skeletal anomalies with cervical spina bifida, hyperkyphosis and thoracic deformity. All patients had a normal 46, XY karyotype. Inheritance could be either autosomal recessive or X-linked.
macrocephaly, short stature, paraplegia syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of macrocephaly and midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit, short stature, spastic paraplegia and severe central nervous system anomalies (hydrocephalus and Dandy-Walker malformation). It has been described in two unrelated adults.
48, xxyy syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a male child has an extra X and Y chromosome.
facial ectodermal dysplasias	Focal facial dermal dysplasias (FFDD) are rare ectodermal dysplasias, with characteristics of congenital bitemporal (resembling forceps marks) or preauricular scar-like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations. Four types of FFDD are described. Types II and III present with a variable facial dysmorphism including distichiasis (upper lashes) or lacking eyelashes, and upward slanting and thinned lateral eyebrows with a flattened nasal bridge and full upper lip. Types I and IV are infrequently associated with extra-cutaneous anomalies.
familial focal facial dermal dysplasia	Focal facial dermal dysplasias (FFDD) are rare ectodermal dysplasias, with characteristics of congenital bitemporal (resembling forceps marks) or preauricular scar-like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations. Four types of FFDD are described. Types II and III present with a variable facial dysmorphism including distichiasis (upper lashes) or lacking eyelashes, and upward slanting and thinned lateral eyebrows with a flattened nasal bridge and full upper lip. Types I and IV are infrequently associated with extra-cutaneous anomalies.
congenital anomaly of vein (disorder) [ambiguous]	A vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover. A venous malformation may present as a blue patch on the skin ranging to a soft blue mass. Venous malformations are easily compressible and usually swell in thewhen venous pressure increases (e.g., when held in a dependent position or when a child cries). They may be relatively localized or quite extensive within an anatomic region. [HPO:probinson]
chested pigeon	A clinical finding in which there is protuberance of the sternum visible on examination of the chest.
abnormal ventriculoarterial connection (disorder)	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between the ventricles and the pulmonary artery and aorta. [PMID:15227248, PMID:18805185, PMID:24750982]
abnormal location of heart atrium	Abnormality of the spatial relationship of the atria to other components of the heart. [DDD:dbrown]
uranostaphyloschisis (disorder)	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
cleft of palate	Cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth (soft and hard palate). [HPO:probinson]
indeterminate atrial arrangement	Common atrium without defining morphologic features. [DDD:dbrown]
double outlet right ventricle with doubly committed ventricular septal defect and pulmonary stenosis (disorder)	A double outlet right ventricle with a subaortic ventritricular septal defect (a hole between the two bottom chambers (ventricles) of the heart), that extends anterosuperiorly and are closely related to the pulmonary artery as well, are considered to be doubly committed. There is associated pulmonary stenosis, the abnormal narrowing or constriction of the pulmonary artery, in the main pulmonary artery and/or in the left or right pulmonary artery branches. [PMID:6193702]
xyy syndrome	genetic disorder that produces tall and in many cases disturbed behavioral males due to XYY karyotype.
malformations, anorectal	An abnormality of the anus or rectum. [HPO:probinson]
nephrosis, congenital	Nephrotic syndrome with onset within the first three months of life. [Eurenomics:fschaefer]
dextrotransposition of the great arteries	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the right of the pulmonary artery. This is the most common kind of TGA. [PMID:25082585]
congenital renal dysplasia nos	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
renal dysplasia	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
lumbar myelomeningocele	A congenital abnormality in the lumbar region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
cervical myelomeningocele	A congenital abnormality in the cervical region of the spine in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
discordant ventriculoarterial connection with concordant atrioventricular connection	A rare congenital cardiovascular abnormality in which the aorta arises from the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery arises from the left ventricle.
congenital anomaly of cardiovascular system	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
congenital anomaly of the cardiovascular system	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
congenital cvs anomaly nos	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
poorly mineralized tooth enamel	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
16p11.2 deletion syndrome	A microdeletion at 16p11.2, characterized by a predisposition to obesity, developmental delay and autism spectrum disorders.
osd - ocular skeletal dysplasia	An inherited syndrome of skeletal and retinal malformations with early blindness as well as cataracts and retinal detachment.
simple craniosynostosis (disorder)	Nonsyndromic premature fusion of a single suture.
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type f	A severe form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia with main features microcephaly of at least 3 standard deviations and a thick cortex associated with complete absence of the corpus callosum.
lissencephaly co-occurrent with congenital cerebellar hypoplasia type d (disorder)	A form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia with main features of pronounced microcephaly, intellectual disability, spastic diplegia and moderate to severe cerebellar hypoplasia involving both vermis and hemispheres.
lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia type b	A form of lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia with main features of subtle microcephaly, hypotonia and neurological and cognitive development delay. Hippocampal malformation is a characteristic feature on imaging.
isolated lissencephaly type 1 without known genetic defect (disorder)	A diagnosis of exclusion, when neither associated malformations nor family history are present, and in the absence of mutations of genes known to be involved in classic lissencephaly. Clinically patients present with the common features of classic lissencephaly such as developmental delay, intellectual disability, and seizures.
craniosynostosis with dandy-walker malformation and hydrocephalus syndrome (disorder)	A malformation disorder with characteristics of sagittal craniosynostosis, Dandy-Walker malformation, hydrocephalus, craniofacial dysmorphism (including dolichocephaly, hypertelorism, micrognathia, positional ear deformity) and variable developmental delay. The inheritance pattern appears to be autosomal dominant.
lissencephaly due to tubulin alpha 1a mutation (disorder)	A congenital cortical development anomaly due to abnormal neuronal migration involving neocortical and hippocampal lamination, corpus callosum, cerebellum and brainstem. A large clinical spectrum can be observed, from children with severe epilepsy and intellectual and motor deficit to cases with severe cerebral dysgenesis in the antenatal period leading to pregnancy termination due to the severity of the prognosis.
lissencephaly type 3 familial fetal akinesia sequence syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of microencephaly, agenesis of the corpus callosum, brainstem hypoplasia, cystic cerebellum and fetal akinesia sequence. Less than 10 cases have been described so far. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and may be an allelic variant of Neu-Laxova syndrome and lissencephaly type III with metacarpal bone dysplasia.
microlissencephaly micromelia syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome of abnormal cortical development with characteristics of severe prenatal polyhydramnios, postnatal microcephaly, lissencephaly, upper limb micromelia, dysmorphic facies (coarse face, hypertrichosis, and short nose with long philtrum), intractable seizures, and early death. Hypoparathyroidism was noted in one case.
congenital absence and aplasia of penis (diagnosis)	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
aphallus	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
myelocystocele (disorder)	Myelocystocele is characterized by a large, ependyma-lined, cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord; it projects dorsally through a lamina defect, with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue. Myelocystoceles are associated with a tethered cord and meningocele, which communicates with the spinal subarachnoid space, but not with the central canal cyst. [PMID:9514174, UToronto:chum]
allantoic cyst (disorder)	An umbilical cyst that arises from allantoic tissue that did not regress during gestational development. Most cases involve a patent urachus that allows for communication to the urinary bladder.
tapvd	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
total anomalous pulmonary venous connection	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
tapvr	A rare congenital heart disorder in which all four pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium and drain into the systemic veins or the right atrium instead. Infants present with cyanosis, lethargy, tachypnea, respiratory infections, and poor growth.
nevus sebaceus of jadassohn	Síndrome caracterizada por lesões na face, couro cabeludo ou pescoço, consistindo de malformações hipoplásicas congênitas de estruturas cutâneas que, com o tempo, originam hiperplasia verrucosa. Além disso, está associado com sintomas neurológicos e anomalias esqueléticas, oftalmológicas, urogenitais e cardiovasculares.
linear sebaceous nevus	Síndrome caracterizada por lesões na face, couro cabeludo ou pescoço, consistindo de malformações hipoplásicas congênitas de estruturas cutâneas que, com o tempo, originam hiperplasia verrucosa. Além disso, está associado com sintomas neurológicos e anomalias esqueléticas, oftalmológicas, urogenitais e cardiovasculares.
cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal syndrome	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
cofs syndrome	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
vascular nevus	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
nevus; vascular	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
nevus sanguineus	A benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue. [NCIT:C3438]
agenesis, enamel	Una forma de amelogénesis imperfecta caracterizada por formación incompleta del esmalte dental y transmitida como rasgo autosómico dominante o ligado al cromosoma X.
exstrophy	Eversion of a hollow organ and exposure, inside out, and protruded through the abdominal wall. [HPO:probinson]
hamartoma	A focal malformation resembling a neoplasm, composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues that normally occur in the affected area.
cyst; odontogenic	Cysts found in the jaws and arising from epithelium involved in tooth formation. They include follicular cysts (e.g., primordial cyst, dentigerous cyst, multilocular cyst), lateral periodontal cysts, and radicular cysts. They may become keratinized (odontogenic keratocysts). Follicular cysts may give rise to ameloblastomas and, in rare cases, undergo malignant transformation.
congenital malrotation	A congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated (twisted). It may result in intestinal obstruction.
hypoplasia, nos	Incomplete or arrested development of an organ or a part
congenital dysplasia (morphologic abnormality)	Abnormal tissue formation due to abnormal cellular organization, which may result in a morphologic defect.
congenital hemihypertrophy	A condition in which one side of the body or a part of one side is larger than the other. Children with hemihypertrophy have an increased risk of developing certain types of cancer, including Wilms tumor (a childhood kidney cancer) and liver cancer.
congenital incomplete closure	congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts.
glandular odontogenic cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst with epithelial features that simulate salivary gland or glandular differentiation. (WHO 2017)
orthokeratinised odontogenic cyst	An odontogenic cyst that is entirely or predominantly lined by orthokeratinized stratified squamous epithelium. (WHO 2017)
congenital vascular malformation	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
acrocephalosyndactyly type i (disorder)	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
congenital absence of unspecified limb(s)	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital absence of limb	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
ai - amelogenesis imperfecta	A clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of hereditary conditions characterized by malformed DENTAL ENAMEL, usually involving DENTAL ENAMEL HYPOPLASIA and/or TOOTH HYPOMINERALIZATION.
congenital absence of brain	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
agenesis; brain	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
agenesis of brain	A malformation of the nervous system caused by failure of the anterior neuropore to close. Infants are born with intact spinal cords, cerebellums, and brainstems, but lack formation of neural structures above this level. The skull is only partially formed but the eyes are usually normal. This condition may be associated with folate deficiency. Affected infants are only capable of primitive (brain stem) reflexes and usually do not survive for more than two weeks. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p247)
absent iris	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
absence of iris	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
clinical anophthalmos	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
anophthalmos nos	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
atresias, anal	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
dolichostenomelia	An abnormal bone development that is characterized by extra long and slender hands and fingers, such that the clenched thumb extends beyond the ulnar side of the hand. Arachnodactyly can include feet and toes. Arachnodactyly has been associated with several gene mutations and syndromes.
arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (diagnosis)	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
ataxia-telangiectasia	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by choreoathetosis beginning in childhood, progressive CEREBELLAR ATAXIA; TELANGIECTASIS of CONJUNCTIVA and SKIN; DYSARTHRIA; B- and T-cell immunodeficiency, and RADIOSENSITIVITY to IONIZING RADIATION. Affected individuals are prone to recurrent sinobronchopulmonary infections, lymphoreticular neoplasms, and other malignancies. Serum ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS are usually elevated. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p688) The gene for this disorder (ATM) encodes a cell cycle checkpoint protein kinase and has been mapped to chromosome 11 (11q22-q23).
atresia of bile duct	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
biliary atresia	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
bloom-torre-machacek syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectatic ERYTHEMA of the face, photosensitivity, DWARFISM and other abnormalities, and a predisposition toward developing cancer. The Bloom syndrome gene (BLM) encodes a RecQ-like DNA helicase.
bone dysplasias	Diseases resulting in abnormal GROWTH or abnormal MORPHOGENESIS of BONES.
disorder of bone development (disorder)	Diseases resulting in abnormal GROWTH or abnormal MORPHOGENESIS of BONES.
bronchogenic cyst	A usually spherical cyst, arising as an embryonic out-pouching of the foregut or trachea. It is generally found in the mediastinum or lung and is usually asymptomatic unless it becomes infected.
pulmonary sequestrations	A developmental anomaly in which a mass of nonfunctioning lung tissue lacks normal connection with the tracheobroncheal tree and receives an anomalous blood supply originating from the descending thoracic or abdominal aorta. The mass may be extralobar, i.e., completely separated from normally connected lung, or intralobar, i.e., partly surrounded by normal lung.
ciliary motility defect	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
dysostoses, cleidocranial	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital clubfeet	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital cataract	Cataract that is present at birth.
cerebral meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
congenital fibrose liver	A congenital disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It affects the hepatobiliary system and the kidneys. It is characterized by liver fibrosis, portal hypertension, and renal cysts.
spinal meningocele of unspecified site (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
congenital spinal meningocele (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
meningocele (spinal)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
cor triatriatum	A malformation of the heart in which the embryonic common PULMONARY VEIN was not incorporated into the LEFT ATRIUM leaving behind a perforated fibromuscular membrane bisecting the left atrium, a three-atrium heart. The opening between the two left atrium sections determines the degree of obstruction to pulmonary venous return, pulmonary venous and pulmonary arterial hypertension.
crouzon disease	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
undescended testicle nos (disorder)	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
testes, undescended	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
undescended testicles	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
ccam	An abnormality in lung development that is characterized by a multicystic mass resulting from an adenomatous overgrowth of the terminal BRONCHIOLES with a consequent reduction of PULMONARY ALVEOLI. This anomaly is classified into three types by the cyst size.
dandy-walker anomaly	A congenital abnormality of the central nervous system marked by failure of the midline structures of the cerebellum to develop, dilation of the fourth ventricle, and upward displacement of the transverse sinuses, tentorium, and torcula. Clinical features include occipital bossing, progressive head enlargement, bulging of anterior fontanelle, papilledema, ataxia, gait disturbances, nystagmus, and intellectual compromise. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, pp294-5)
dentin dysplasia	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
dentinogenesis imperfecta (disorder)	An autosomal dominant disorder of tooth development characterized by opalescent dentin resulting in discoloration of the teeth. The dentin develops poorly with low mineral content while the pulp canal is obliterated.
excessive interdental space	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
gap between teeth	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
sedlackova syndrome	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
ectodermal defect congen	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
cordis, ectopia	A rare developmental defect in which the heart is abnormally located partially or totally outside the THORAX. It is the result of defective fusion of the anterior chest wall. Depending on the location of the heart, ectopia cordis can be thoracic, thoracoabdominal, abdominal, and cervical.
ectromelia, nos	Gross hypo- or aplasia of one or more long bones of one or more limbs. The concept includes amelia, hemimelia, phocomelia, and sirenomelia.
infectious ectromelia	A viral infection of mice, causing edema and necrosis followed by limb loss.
ellis van creveld syndrome	Dwarfism occurring in association with defective development of skin, hair, and teeth, polydactyly, and defect of the cardiac septum. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital cerebral hernia (disorder)	Brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull. The majority of congenital encephaloceles occur in the occipital or frontal regions. Clinical features include a protuberant mass that may be pulsatile. The quantity and location of protruding neural tissue determines the type and degree of neurologic deficit. Visual defects, psychomotor developmental delay, and persistent motor deficits frequently occur.
cranium bifidum	Brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull. The majority of congenital encephaloceles occur in the occipital or frontal regions. Clinical features include a protuberant mass that may be pulsatile. The quantity and location of protruding neural tissue determines the type and degree of neurologic deficit. Visual defects, psychomotor developmental delay, and persistent motor deficits frequently occur.
occipital enceph	A type of encephalocele (that is, a a protrusion of part of the cranial contents including brain tissue through a congenital opening in the cranium, typically covered with skin or mucous membrane) in the occipital region of the skull. Occipital encephalocele presents as a midline swelling over the occipital bone. It is usually covered with normal full-thickness scalp. [DDD:awilkie, HPO:probinson]
occipital meningoencephalocele	A type of encephalocele (that is, a a protrusion of part of the cranial contents including brain tissue through a congenital opening in the cranium, typically covered with skin or mucous membrane) in the occipital region of the skull. Occipital encephalocele presents as a midline swelling over the occipital bone. It is usually covered with normal full-thickness scalp. [DDD:awilkie, HPO:probinson]
notoencephalocele	A type of encephalocele (that is, a a protrusion of part of the cranial contents including brain tissue through a congenital opening in the cranium, typically covered with skin or mucous membrane) in the occipital region of the skull. Occipital encephalocele presents as a midline swelling over the occipital bone. It is usually covered with normal full-thickness scalp. [DDD:awilkie, HPO:probinson]
endocardial cushion defects nos	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
epidermolysis bullosa	Group of genetically determined disorders characterized by the blistering of skin and mucosae. There are four major forms: acquired, simple, junctional, and dystrophic. Each of the latter three has several varieties.
imperforate esophagus	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
esophageal atresias	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
congenital imperforate esophagus	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
congenital anomaly of eye	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
syndrome; fetal, alcohol (dysmorphic)	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fdh	A genetic skin disease characterized by hypoplasia of the dermis, herniations of fat, and hand anomalies. It is found exclusively in females and transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
congenital anomaly of foot, nos	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
anomaly; foot	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
mental retardation, x-linked, associated with marxq28	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
joined teeth	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
tooth fusion	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
syndrome, gilbert's	A benign familial disorder, transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. It is characterized by low-grade chronic hyperbilirubinemia with considerable daily fluctuations of the bilirubin level.
glycogen storage disease, type i	An autosomal recessive disease in which gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase is absent, resulting in hypoglycemia due to lack of glucose production. Accumulation of glycogen in liver and kidney leads to organomegaly, particularly massive hepatomegaly. Increased concentrations of lactic acid and hyperlipidemia appear in the plasma. Clinical gout often appears in early childhood.
glycogenosis 6	A hepatic GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE in which there is an apparent deficiency of hepatic phosphorylase (GLYCOGEN PHOSPHORYLASE, LIVER FORM) activity.
gonadal; dysgenesis	A number of syndromes with defective gonadal developments such as streak GONADS and dysgenetic testes or ovaries. The spectrum of gonadal and sexual abnormalities is reflected in their varied sex chromosome (SEX CHROMOSOMES) constitution as shown by the karyotypes of 45,X monosomy (TURNER SYNDROME); 46,XX (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46XX); 46,XY (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46,XY); and sex chromosome MOSAICISM; (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, MIXED). Their phenotypes range from female, through ambiguous, to male. This concept includes gonadal agenesis.
mosaicism 45,x/46,xy (diagnosis)	A type of defective gonadal development in patients with a wide spectrum of chromosomal mosaic variants. Their karyotypes are of partial sex chromosome monosomy resulting from an absence or an abnormal second sex chromosome (X or Y). Karyotypes include 45,X/46,XX; 45,X/46,XX/47,XXX; 46,XXp-; 45,X/46,XY; 45,X/47,XYY; 46,XYpi; etc. The spectrum of phenotypes may range from phenotypic female to phenotypic male including variations in gonads and internal and external genitalia, depending on the ratio in each gonad of 45,X primordial germ cells to those with normal 46,XX or 46,XY constitution.
hallermann-streiff syndrome	An oculomandibulofacial syndrome principally characterized by dyscephaly (usually brachycephaly), parrot nose, mandibular hypoplasia, proportionate nanism, hypotrichosis, bilateral congenital cataracts, and microphthalmia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
congenital hand malformations	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
congenital hand deformity	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
septal defect	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
atrial septal defect	Developmental abnormalities in any portion of the ATRIAL SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communications between the two upper chambers of the heart. Classification of atrial septal defects is based on location of the communication and types of incomplete fusion of atrial septa with the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS in the fetal heart. They include ostium primum, ostium secundum, sinus venosus, and coronary sinus defects.
ventricular septal defect	Developmental abnormalities in any portion of the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communications between the two lower chambers of the heart. Classification of ventricular septal defects is based on location of the communication, such as perimembranous, inlet, outlet (infundibular), central muscular, marginal muscular, or apical muscular defect.
transverse deficiency of arm, elbow level	A congenital malformation characterized by the partial or total absence of the distal half of a limb.
hippel lindau syndrome von	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
hirschsprung; megacolon	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
semicircular tooth	An incisor with a half-moon shape incisal edge. []
absence of cerebral hemispheres congen	A congenital condition where the greater portions of the cerebral hemispheres and CORPUS STRIATUM are replaced by CSF and glial tissue. The meninges and the skull are well formed, which is consistent with earlier normal embryogenesis of the telencephalon. Bilateral occlusions of the internal carotid arteries in utero is a potential mechanism. Clinical features include intact brainstem reflexes without evidence of higher cortical activity. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p307)
hydrocephalus, congenital	Hydrocephalus that is present at birth.
congenital partial absence of teeth	The absence of five or less teeth from the normal series by a failure to develop. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
hyperbilirubinemia ii	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
surdo cardiac syndrome	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
prolonged qt interval in ekg and sudden death	A form of long QT syndrome that is associated with congenital deafness. It is characterized by abnormal cardioelectrophysiology involving the VOLTAGE-GATED POTASSIUM CHANNEL. It results from mutation of KCNQ1 gene (Subtype 1 or JLN1) or the KCNE1 gene (Subtype 2 or JLN2).
tylosis	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
darier white disease	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
darier-white disease	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
medullary sponge kidney	En icke ärftlig njursjukdom som kännetecknas av en onormal vidgning av samlingsrören i njurmärgen och njurpapillerna. Samlingsrören innehåller cystor eller utbuktningar fyllda med en geléartad substans eller små njurstenar, vilket kan leda till infektioner eller obstruktion. Svampnjure måste särskiljas från medfödd eller ärftlig polycystnjure.
fusion of cervical vertebrae c2-3	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
klippel-feil sequence	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
kfs - klippel-feil syndrome	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
klippel-trenaunay disease	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
syndrome webers	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
trpse	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome, type ii	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
laurence moon biedl syndrome	En autosomalt recessiv sjukdom som kännetecknas av hypogonadism, nedbrytning av ryggmärg och lillhjärna, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, retinitis pigmentosa och fetma. Syndromet kallades Laurence-Moon-Biedls syndrom tills Bardet-Biedls syndrom erkändes som ett självständigt sjukdomstillstånd.
periventricular encephalomalacias	Degeneration of white matter adjacent to the CEREBRAL VENTRICLES following cerebral hypoxia or BRAIN ISCHEMIA in neonates. The condition primarily affects white matter in the perfusion zone between superficial and deep branches of the MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. Clinical manifestations include VISION DISORDERS; CEREBRAL PALSY; PARAPLEGIA; SEIZURES; and cognitive disorders. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1021; Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1997, Ch4, pp30-1)
lymphangiectasis	A transient dilatation of the lymphatic vessels.
benign lymphangioma	A benign tumor resulting from a congenital malformation of the lymphatic system. Lymphangioendothelioma is a type of lymphangioma in which endothelial cells are the dominant component.
short rib-polydactyly syndrome, type iia	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
short rib-polydactyly syndrome, majewski type	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
meckel diverticulum	En medfödd missbildning kännetecknad av en utbuktning i ileum. Det är en kvarleva av embryots gulesäck, där äggulegången inte slutits.
melanosis oculis	A congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate-gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera . The conjunctiva are spared. []
meningomyeloceles	Congenital, or rarely acquired, herniation of meningeal and spinal cord tissue through a bony defect in the vertebral column. The majority of these defects occur in the lumbosacral region. Clinical features include PARAPLEGIA, loss of sensation in the lower body, and incontinence. This condition may be associated with the ARNOLD-CHIARI MALFORMATION and HYDROCEPHALUS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp35-6)
micromelia	The presence of abnormally small extremities. [HPO:probinson]
myotonia dystrophicas	Neuromuscular disorder characterized by PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR ATROPHY; MYOTONIA, and various multisystem atrophies. Mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may also occur. Abnormal TRINUCLEOTIDE REPEAT EXPANSION in the 3' UNTRANSLATED REGIONS of DMPK PROTEIN gene is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 1. DNA REPEAT EXPANSION of zinc finger protein-9 gene intron is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 2.
defects neural tube	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neuroenteric cyst (disorder)	The neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue. During the third week of human embryogenesis, the neurenteric canal unites the yolk sac and the amniotic cavity as it traverses the primitive notochordal plate. Persistence of the normally transient neurenteric canal prevents appropriate separation of endoderm and notochord. This results in a variable degree of communication between neural and enteric epithelium. [PMID:20890417, UToronto:chum]
neurofibromatosis ii	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
noonan syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
dystrophy; oculocerebrorenal	A sex-linked recessive disorder affecting multiple systems including the EYE, the NERVOUS SYSTEM, and the KIDNEY. Clinical features include congenital CATARACT; MENTAL RETARDATION; and renal tubular dysfunction (FANCONI SYNDROME; RENAL TUBULAR ACIDOSIS; X-LINKED HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA or vitamin-D-resistant rickets) and SCOLIOSIS. This condition is due to a deficiency of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-5-phosphatase leading to defects in PHOSPHATIDYLINOSITOL metabolism and INOSITOL signaling pathway. (from Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p60; Am J Hum Genet 1997 Jun;60(6):1384-8)
orofacial-digital syndrome	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
orofaciodigital syndromes	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
osgood schlatter's dis.	Morbus Osgood-Schlatter is a Juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the Tuberositas tibiae. [HPO:sdoelken]
juvenile osteochondrosis of tibial tubercle	Morbus Osgood-Schlatter is a Juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the Tuberositas tibiae. [HPO:sdoelken]
pachydermoperiostosis, autosomal recessive	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
albers schoenberg disease	Excessive formation of dense trabecular bone leading to pathological fractures; OSTEITIS; SPLENOMEGALY with infarct; ANEMIA; and extramedullary hemopoiesis (HEMATOPOIESIS, EXTRAMEDULLARY).
juvenile periodontosis with hyperkeratosis	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
fimbrial cyst	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
cysts fimbrial	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
fetal; circulation, persistent	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
ostium primum	A congenital defect in the atrial septum at the level of the atrioventricular valves, resulting in abnormalities in the mitral and/or tricuspid valve; this defect is most commonly seen in those with Trisomy 21.
polyps-and-spots syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
jeghers-peutz syndrome	A hereditary disease caused by autosomal dominant mutations involving CHROMOSOME 19. It is characterized by the presence of INTESTINAL POLYPS, consistently in the JEJUNUM, and mucocutaneous pigmentation with MELANIN spots of the lips, buccal MUCOSA, and digits.
pierre robin sequence	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
placenta accreta was observed	Abnormal placentation in which all or parts of the PLACENTA are attached directly to the MYOMETRIUM due to a complete or partial absence of DECIDUA. It is associated with POSTPARTUM HEMORRHAGE because of the failure of placental separation.
accreta placenta	Abnormal placentation in which all or parts of the PLACENTA are attached directly to the MYOMETRIUM due to a complete or partial absence of DECIDUA. It is associated with POSTPARTUM HEMORRHAGE because of the failure of placental separation.
placenta praevia	Ett tillstånd när moderkakan är implanterad nära utloppet av livmodern och helt eller delvis täcker öppningen från livmodern till livmoderhalsen. Placenta previa är orsaken till antepartum (i sen graviditet) blödningar och förtidig förlossning.
poikiloderma congenitale syndrome	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
poland syndactyly	A syndrome which is characterized by symbrachydactyly and aplasia of the sternal head of pectoralis major.
poland anomaly	A syndrome which is characterized by symbrachydactyly and aplasia of the sternal head of pectoralis major.
congenital prognathism (disorder)	A condition marked by abnormal protrusion of the mandible. (Dorland, 27th ed)
pseudohermaphroditism, unspecified	condition in which the gonads are of one sex but one or more contradictions exist in the morphologic criteria of sex; female pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal female with partial masculinization; male pseudohermaphroditism is a form in which the affected individual is a genetic and gonadal male with incomplete masculinization.
pulm infundibular stenoses	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
congenital malformation of the respiratory system (disorder)	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
right aortic arch; persistent	An anatomic abnormality that occurs during embryonic development, in which the aortic arch is right-sided.
right-sided aortic arch (diagnosis)	An anatomic abnormality that occurs during embryonic development, in which the aortic arch is right-sided.
broad thumbs and great toes, characteristic facies, and mental retardation	A chromosomal disorder characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION, broad thumbs, webbing of fingers and toes, beaked nose, short upper lip, pouting lower lip, agenesis of corpus callosum, large foramen magnum, keloid formation, pulmonary stenosis, vertebral anomalies, chest wall anomalies, sleep apnea, and megacolon. The disease has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance and is associated with deletions of the short arm of chromosome 16 (16p13.3).
short rib-polydactyly syndrome type 1	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
short rib polydactyly syndrome, saldino noonan type	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
polydactyly with neonatal chondrodystrophy, type i	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
short rib polydactyly syndrome type 1	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
chondrodystrophic; myotonia	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
spondylo-epimetaphyseal dysplasia with myotonia	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
scimitar anomaly	An anomalous pulmonary venous return in which the right PULMONARY VEIN is not connected to the LEFT ATRIUM but to the INFERIOR VENA CAVA. Scimitar syndrome is named for the crescent- or Turkish sword-like shadow in the chest radiography and is often associated with hypoplasia of the right lung and right pulmonary artery, and dextroposition of the heart.
symelia	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
mermaid syndrome	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
transposition of viscera unspecified	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
genetic skin diseases	Diseases of the skin with a genetic component, usually the result of various inborn errors of metabolism.
congenital spinal anomaly spina bifida aperta	A form of spinal dysraphism associated with a protruding cyst made up of either meninges (i.e., a MENINGOCELE) or meninges in combination with spinal cord tissue (i.e., a MENINGOMYELOCELE). These lesions are frequently associated with spinal cord dysfunction, HYDROCEPHALUS, and SYRINGOMYELIA. (From Davis et al., Textbook of Neuropathology, 2nd ed, pp224-5)
sturges weber syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sturges syndrome weber	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndrome, sturge-kalischer-weber	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sturge-weber(-dimitri) syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndactylia	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the webbing between adjacent fingers or toes. Syndactylies are classified as complete or incomplete by the degree of joining. Syndactylies can also be simple or complex. Simple syndactyly indicates joining of only skin or soft tissue; complex syndactyly marks joining of bony elements.
syndactylies	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the webbing between adjacent fingers or toes. Syndactylies are classified as complete or incomplete by the degree of joining. Syndactylies can also be simple or complex. Simple syndactyly indicates joining of only skin or soft tissue; complex syndactyly marks joining of bony elements.
thyroglossal cyst (disorder)	A cyst in the neck caused by persistence of portions of, or by lack of closure of, the primitive thyroglossal duct. (Dorland, 27th ed)
abnormalities, teeth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
tooth malformation	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
crowding of teeth (diagnosis)	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
tooth crowding	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
impacted teeth	A tooth that is prevented from erupting by a physical barrier, usually other teeth. Impaction may also result from orientation of the tooth in an other than vertical position in the periodontal structures.
great transposition vessels	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
bourneville-pringle disease	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
epiloya	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
urogenital malformation anomaly	Congenital structural abnormalities of the UROGENITAL SYSTEM in either the male or the female.
adult premature ageing syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
white heifer dis	Vrozená vada pohlavních orgánů u bílých jalovic určitých plemen skotu (např. Belgian Blue, Shorthorn). Bílá barva je dědičný recesivní znak spojený s defekty samičího pohlavního ústrojí (Müllerův vývod). Tyto jalovice jsou většinou sterilní.
kaposis dis	A rare, pigmentary, and atrophic autosomal recessive disease. It is manifested as an extreme photosensitivity to ULTRAVIOLET RAYS as the result of a deficiency in the enzyme that permits excisional repair of ultraviolet-damaged DNA.
zellweger syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder due to defects in PEROXISOME biogenesis which involves more than 13 genes encoding peroxin proteins of the peroxisomal membrane and matrix. Zellweger syndrome is typically seen in the neonatal period with features such as dysmorphic skull; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; visual compromise; SEIZURES; progressive degeneration of the KIDNEYS and the LIVER. Zellweger-like syndrome refers to phenotypes resembling the neonatal Zellweger syndrome but seen in children or adults with apparently intact peroxisome biogenesis.
branchial cleft - malformation	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
epidermolysis; bullosa, dystrophica	Form of epidermolysis bullosa characterized by atrophy of blistered areas, severe scarring, and nail changes. It is most often present at birth or in early infancy and occurs in both autosomal dominant and recessive forms. All forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa result from mutations in COLLAGEN TYPE VII, a major component fibrils of BASEMENT MEMBRANE and EPIDERMIS.
congenital torticollis	A congenital form of torticollis resulting from shortening of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and leading to a limited range of motion in both rotation and lateral bending. [HPO:probinson]
hallopeau-siemens disease	An autosomal recessive allelic variant of epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica caused by mutation(s) in the COL7A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(VII) chain.
familial alobar holoprosencephaly (disorder)	Anterior midline brain, cranial, and facial malformations resulting from the failure of the embryonic prosencephalon to undergo segmentation and cleavage. Alobar prosencephaly is the most severe form and features anophthalmia; cyclopia; severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY; CLEFT LIP; CLEFT PALATE; SEIZURES; and microcephaly. Semilobar holoprosencepaly is characterized by hypotelorism, microphthalmia, coloboma, nasal malformations, and variable degrees of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Lobar holoprosencephaly is associated with mild (or absent) facial malformations and intellectual abilities that range from mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY to normal. Holoprosencephaly is associated with CHROMOSOME ABNORMALITIES.
ichthyoses, sex-linked	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
spina bifida; occulta	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
spinal dysraphism	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
tethered cord syndromes	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
familial benign chronic pemphigus	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
arteriohepatic dysplasia	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
syndrome, alagille watson	A multisystem disorder that is characterized by aplasia of intrahepatic bile ducts (BILE DUCTS, INTRAHEPATIC), and malformations in the cardiovascular system, the eyes, the vertebral column, and the facies. Major clinical features include JAUNDICE, and congenital heart disease with peripheral PULMONARY STENOSIS. Alagille syndrome may result from heterogeneous gene mutations, including mutations in JAG1 on CHROMOSOME 20 (Type 1) and NOTCH2 on CHROMOSOME 1 (Type 2).
polycystic kidney and hepatic disease 1	A genetic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance, characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS and associated LIVER lesions. Serious manifestations are usually present at BIRTH with high PERINATAL MORTALITY.
myelocele (diagnosis)	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
congenital malformation of musculoskeletal system, unspecified	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital heart disease (diagnosis)	imperfections or malformations of the heart, existing at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation.
ankyloblepharon totale	A congenital abnormality in which the margins of the upper and lower eyelids are fused together by bands of tissue.
congenital valgus deformity of foot, unspecified	Outward turning of the heel, resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
cor; biloculare	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only two chambers.
interrupted aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
macrotia	Median longitudinal ear length greater than two standard deviations above the mean and median ear width greater than two standard deviations above the mean (objective); or, apparent increase in length and width of the pinna (subjective). [PMID:19152421]
aphakia; congenital	Absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect. [HPO:probinson]
polydactyly (disorder)	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
polydactyly	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
supernumerary digit	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
accessory digit	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
madelung's deformity of wrist	An anomaly related to partial closure, or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate, which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius. This leads to shortening of the radius and relative overgrowth of the ulna. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12362035]
madelung's deformity	An anomaly related to partial closure, or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate, which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius. This leads to shortening of the radius and relative overgrowth of the ulna. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12362035]
hydromyelia (disorder)	Dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo. [HPO:sdoelken]
optic nerve coloboma	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
preauricular cyst (disorder)	Preauricular sinus is an occasional finding and most frequently appears as a small pit close to the anterior margin of the ascending portion of the helix. The opening has also been reported along the postero superior margin of the helix, the tragus or the lobule. Preauricular sinus may lead to the formation of a subcutaneous cyst that is intimately related to the tragal cartilage and the anterior crus of the helix. [PMID:24427573]
ar - congenital aortic regurgitation	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
congenital lung malformation	A malformation in the lung that is present at birth. Representative examples include pulmonary hypoplasia, pulmonary agenesis, congenital lobar emphysema, and alveolar capillary dysplasia.
cleft palate with cleft lip, unspecified (disorder)	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
fibrocystic disease of liver	A usually asymptomatic hereditary disorder which is often associated with polycystic kidney disease. It is characterized by the presence of fluid-filled biliary cysts throughout the liver.
congenital cystic disease of liver (disorder)	A usually asymptomatic hereditary disorder which is often associated with polycystic kidney disease. It is characterized by the presence of fluid-filled biliary cysts throughout the liver.
anomaly; urinary tract	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
malformation of finger polydactyly	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers. [HPO:probinson]
extra finger	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers. [HPO:probinson]
accessory toes	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes. [HPO:probinson]
polydactyly of toes (disorder)	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes. [HPO:probinson]
fused fingers	Webbing or fusion of the fingers, involving soft parts and including fusion of individual finger bones. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the fingers in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:sdoelken]
fused toes	Webbing or fusion of the toes, involving soft parts and including fusion of individual bones of the toes. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a tibial-fibular axis. Fusions of bones of the toes in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:sdoelken]
macrodactylia of fingers	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several fingers. [HPO:probinson]
macrodactylia of toes	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
hypohidrotic x-linked ectodermal dysplasia (disorder)	An X-linked form of ectodermal dysplasia which results from mutations of the gene encoding ECTODYSPLASIN.
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with anosmia	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
anosmia eunuchoidism	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
silver-russell dwarfism	Genetically and clinically heterogeneous disorder characterized by low birth weight, postnatal growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, bilateral body asymmetry, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers. Alterations in GENETIC IMPRINTING are involved. Hypomethylation of IGF2/H19 locus near an imprinting center region of chromosome 11p15 plays a role in a subset of Silver-Russell syndrome. Hypermethylation of the same chromosomal region, on the other hand, can cause BECKWITH-WIEDEMANN SYNDROME. Maternal UNIPARENTAL DISOMY for chromosome 7 is known to play a role in its etiology.
rsh syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder of CHOLESTEROL metabolism. It is caused by a deficiency of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase, the enzyme that converts 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol, leading to an abnormally low plasma cholesterol. This syndrome is characterized by multiple CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES, growth deficiency, and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
syndrome, sotos	An autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome caused by mutation(s) of the NSD1 or the NFIX gene, encoding H3 lysine-36 and H4 lysine-20 specific histone-lysine N-methyltransferase, and nuclear factor 1 X-type, respectively. The condition is characterized by a disproportionately large and long head with a slightly prominent forehead and pointed chin, hypertelorism, down-slanting eyes, large hands and feet, overgrowth in childhood, and developmental delay.
van der woude's syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the IRF6 gene. It is characterized by a cleft palate and/or pits on the lower lip. Other signs and symptoms include absent teeth, palate and tongue deformities.
facio-digito-genital dysplasia	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
hypercalcemia-supravalvar aortic stenosis	A disorder caused by hemizygous microdeletion of about 28 genes on chromosome 7q11.23, including the ELASTIN gene. Clinical manifestations include SUPRAVALVULAR AORTIC STENOSIS; MENTAL RETARDATION; elfin facies; impaired visuospatial constructive abilities; and transient HYPERCALCEMIA in infancy. The condition affects both sexes, with onset at birth or in early infancy.
tar	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
generalised lentiginosis	Ett syndrom som kännetecknas av lentigo, ekg-avvikelser, hypertelorism, pulmonalstenos, onormalt utvecklade könsorgan, hämmad växt och dövhet. Det beror på mutationer i PTPN11-genen, som kodar för protein-tyrosinfosfatas typ 11, ett icke-receptorprotein. De kliniska dragen delas med Noonans syndrom, som också beror på mutationer i PTPN11, och med neurofibromatos 1. Syndromet har även kopplats till mutationer i NF1-genen.
ivemark syndrome	A type of heterotaxy where some paired structures on opposite sides of the left-right axis of the body are symmetrical mirror images of each other, and have the morphology of the normal right-sided structures. [PMID:21731561]
agenesis of corpus callosum with chorioretinal abnormality	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
aicardi syndrome	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
agenesis of the corpus callosum	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
wagr	A contiguous gene syndrome associated with hemizygous deletions of chromosome region 11p13. The condition is marked by the combination of WILMS TUMOR; ANIRIDIA; GENITOURINARY ABNORMALITIES; and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
myopathy, rod	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
ghost teeth	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
hygroma	A cystic growth originating from lymphatic tissue. It is usually found in the neck, axilla, or groin.
congen limb deformities	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
congenital deformity of limb	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
limb malformation	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
pfeiffer-type acrocephalosyndactyly	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
acrocephalosyndactyly type 5	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR1 or FGFR2 genes. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging and wide-set eyes, broad thumbs, big toes, and partial syndactyly in the hands and toes.
blepharophimosis epicanthus inversus ptosis syndrome	An ophthalmic disorder characterized by blepharophimosis, ptosis, epicanthus inversus, and telecanthus that can appear associated with or without premature ovarian failure. The disorder is congenital. Additional features include lacrimal duct anomalies, broad nasal bridge, low-set ears, and a short philtrum. Occurs either sporadically (de novo) or, for the eyelid phenotype, is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with complete penetrance.
beal's syndrome	An autosomal dominant connective tissue disorder caused by mutation(s) in the FBN2 gene, encoding fibrillin-2. It is characterized by contractures, arachnodactyly, scoliosis, micrognathia, and crumpled ears.
goldenhar syndrome with ipsilateral radial defect	A rare branchial arches and limb primordia development disorder with characteristics of variable degrees of uni or bilateral craniofacial malformation and radial defects that result in extremely variable phenotypic manifestations. Characteristic features include low postnatal weight, short stature, vertebral defects, hearing loss, and facial dysmorphism (including facial asymmetry, external, middle and inner ear malformations, orofacial clefts, and mandibular hypoplasia). These features are invariably associated with radial defects, such as preaxial polydactyly, thumb and/or radius hypoplasia/agenesis, or triphalangeal thumb. Cardiac, pulmonary, renal, and central nervous system involvement has also been reported.
hydrocephalus with cleft palate and joint contracture syndrome	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
joint contractures with other abnormalities	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
maxillonasal dysplasia, binder type	A rare developmental anomaly, affecting primarily the anterior part of the maxilla and nasal complex. Affected individuals typically have an unusually flat, underdeveloped midface, with an abnormally short nose and flat nasal bridge, underdeveloped upper jaw, relatively protruding lower jaw and/or a 'reverse overbite'' (or class III malocclusion). Hypoplasia of distal phalanges of fingers was reported in some cases. The pathogenesis remains uncertain, most reported cases were sporadic.
shprintzen vcf syndrome	caused by microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2; associated with multiple congenital anomalies, learning disabilities, behavioral phenotypes including ADHD and anxiety, with schizophrenic risk in adulthood.
diaphragmatic hernia, abnormal face and distal limb anomalies (disorder)	A rare syndrome inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It is characterized by the presence of diaphragmatic defects, distinctive facial features (hypertelorism, low-set ears, flat nasal bridge, and micrognathia), distal digital hypoplasia, lung hypoplasia, and brain, gastrointestinal, and cardiovascular malformations.
hypertelorism with microtia and facial clefting syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of the combination of hypertelorism, cleft lip and palate and microtia. Nine cases have been reported in the literature in seven families. Some patients have associated cardiac or renal congenital malformations. Short stature and intellectual deficiency are common. The reported cases support autosomal recessive inheritance.
craniofrontonasal dysplasia	An X-linked malformation syndrome characterized by facial asymmetry (particularly orbital), body asymmetry, midline defects (hypertelorism, frontal bossing, broad grooved or bifid nasal tip, cleft lip and/or palate, high arched palate), skeletal anomalies (clavicle pseudoarthrosis, coronal craniosynostosis, various digital and limb anomalies including syndactyly, clinodactyly of the 5th finger, broad thumbs) and ectodermal dysplasias (dental anomalies, grooved nails, wiry hair).
disease, kohlmeier-degos	Variously described as a vasculopathy, endovasculitis, or occlusive arteriopathy, this condition occurs in a benign cutaneous form and a lethal multiorgan systemic variant. It is characterized by a narrowing and occlusion of the lumen of small to medium-sized blood vessels, leading to ischemia and infarction in the involved organ systems. The etiology and pathophysiology are unknown.
paralysis; oculofacial	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
complete common av canal	A congenital heart defect characterized by a specific combination of heart defects with a common atrioventricular valve, primum atrial septal defect and inlet ventricular septal defect. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:16722604]
pterygium colli	A congenital, usually bilateral, thick web-like fold of skin that extends from the acromion to the mastoid process. This deformity is associated with Turner Syndrome and Noonan Syndrome.
simple syndactyly of fingers	Webbing or fusion of the fingers, involving soft parts only or including bone structure. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the fingers in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:curators]
webbed fingers	Webbing or fusion of the fingers, involving soft parts only or including bone structure. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the fingers in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:curators]
horseshoe kidneys	A congenital abnormality in which the two kidneys fuse together during fetal development to create a horseshoe-shaped structure.
port wine type hemangioma	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
portwine naevus	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
diaphragmatic hernia, congenital	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
valproic acid antenatal infection	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to valproic acid during pregnancy. Manifestations include musculoskeletal abnormalities, intellectual disability, spina bifida, and distinctive facial features.
dystrophies, facioscapulohumeral muscular	En autosomalt dominant, degenerativ muskelsjukdom som kännetecknas av långsamt tilltagande svaghet i ansiktets, överarmens och skuldergördelns muskler. Symtomen debuterar vanligtvis under livets första eller andra årtionde. De drabbade uppvisar oftast försämrad förmåga att höja armarna. Dessa tecken brukar följas av ansiktsmuskelsvaghet, främst i munnens och ögats ringmuskler.
pseudohermaphroditism, female	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In female pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is female (XX) and the gonads are ovaries, but the external genitalia are virilized. [HPO:curators]
adactylia	The absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues. [PMID:19125433]
adactyly (disorder)	The absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues. [PMID:19125433]
low set ears	Upper insertion of the ear to the scalp below an imaginary horizontal line drawn between the inner canthi of the eye and extending posteriorly to the ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
harlequin ichthyosis	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
high palate	Height of the palate more than 2 SD above the mean (objective) or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth (subjective). [PMID:19125428]
chorioretinal coloboma	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
vertical tali	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
foot, convex	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
pes valgus, convex	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
rockerbottom foot	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
triphalangeal thumb	A thumb with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. Thus, this term applies if the thumb has an accessory phalanx, leading to a digit like appearance of the thumb. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
dental crossbite	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
a crossbite was observed	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
crossbite unspecified	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
ulerythema ophryogenes with multiple congenital anomalies	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
trichorrhexis nodosa (diagnosis)	Trichorrhexis nodosa is the formation of nodes along the hair shaft through which breakage readily occurs. It is thus a focal defect in the hair fiber that is characterized by thickening or weak points (nodes) that cause the hair to break off easily. The result is defective, abnormally fragile hair. [HPO:curators]
trichorrhexis nodosa	Trichorrhexis nodosa is the formation of nodes along the hair shaft through which breakage readily occurs. It is thus a focal defect in the hair fiber that is characterized by thickening or weak points (nodes) that cause the hair to break off easily. The result is defective, abnormally fragile hair. [HPO:curators]
angioma serpiginosum of skin	A hemangioma arising from the skin, presenting as a red dot.
boxer's nasal deformity	Nasal ridge curving posteriorly to an imaginary line that connects the nasal root and tip. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152422]
seckel syndrome (disorder)	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ATR gene, RBBP8 gene, CENPJ gene, CEP152 gene, CEP63 gene, NIN gene, DNA2 gene, or TRAIP gene. It is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation, dwarfism, microcephaly, mental retardation, and a "bird-headed" facial appearance.
meckel-gruber syndrome	A rare, lethal, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by pulmonary hypoplasia, central nervous system malformations, and hepatic malformations.
nls	A rare multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of severe intrauterine growth retardation, severe microcephaly with a sloping forehead, severe ichthyosis (collodion baby type), and facial dysmorphism. Severe central nervous system defects are present. The syndrome is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
chromosome 17p13.3 deletion syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
mdls	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
syndromes, hypothalamic hamartoblastoma	A pleiotropic disorder of human development that comprises hypothalamic HAMARTOMA; central and postaxial POLYDACTYLY; bifid EPIGLOTTIS; ANAL ATRESIA; and renal and other abnormalities. This disorder is associated with FRAMESHIFT MUTATIONS in the GLI3 gene which encodes the GLI3 protein, a KRUPPEL-LIKE TRANSCRIPTION FACTORS family member.
hard - hydrocephalus, agyria and retinal dysplasia	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
hydrocephalus, agyria, and retinal dysplasia	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
pagon syndromes	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
fetal akinesia-hypokinesia sequence	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder. It is characterized by arthrogryposis, facial anomalies, polyhydramnios, camptodactyly, intrauterine growth retardation, and pulmonary hypoplasia. Pulmonary hypoplasia is present in the vast majority of cases and is often the fatal component of this syndrome.
branchio-oto-renal syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
branchio-otorenal dysplasia	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
goldenhar gorlin syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
oral-mandibular-auricular syndromes	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
oral mandibular auricular syndrome	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
first arch syndrome (disorder)	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
first and second pharyngeal arch syndromes	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
agotc	A fatal, congenital, anatomic defect of the head characterised by a total or near total absence of the lower jaw, resulting in the union or close approach of the ears on the ventral side of the neck.
townes syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
opd syndrome, type 1	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
faciogenitopopliteal syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
pps	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
popliteal pterygium syndrome [dup] (disorder)	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
multiple pterygium syndrome, escobar variant	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
evmps	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
atrio-digital syndrome	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
kenny-caffey syndrome	A genetic condition characterized by long bone sclerosis and thickening, short stature, and head and eye anomalies. Many affected individuals have hypoparathyroidism with hypocalcemia.
acrocephalopolysyndactyly type iv	An extremely rare chondrodysplastic malformation syndrome with the combination of arachnodactyly, becoming evident at around the age of 10, camptodactyly and scoliosis. A mild facial dysmorphism including a broad nose and flaring nostrils and a mild intellectual disability were also noted. The syndrome has been described once in 3 siblings and is suspected to follow autosomal recessive transmission. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1972.
camptodactyly with fibrous tissue hyperplasia and skeletal dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare chondrodysplastic malformation syndrome with the combination of arachnodactyly, becoming evident at around the age of 10, camptodactyly and scoliosis. A mild facial dysmorphism including a broad nose and flaring nostrils and a mild intellectual disability were also noted. The syndrome has been described once in 3 siblings and is suspected to follow autosomal recessive transmission. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1972.
dyschondrosteosis	A bone growth disorder inherited in a pseudoautosomal dominant pattern caused by mutations in the SHOX gene. It is characterized by short long bones in the arms and legs, short stature, and abnormalities of the wrist and forearm bones which may cause pain and limit wrist movement.
weill-marchesani	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
neurocutaneous disorder	En grupp sjukdomstillstånd kännetecknade av ektodermbaserade missbildningar och tumörvävnadsväxt i huden, nervsystemet och andra organ.
bannayan-riley-ruvalcaba syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
ruvalcaba-myhre-smith syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
moynahan's syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic epilepsy syndrome with characteristics of congenital alopecia, early-onset epilepsy, intellectual disability and speech delay. Large stature, delayed bone development and abnormal electroencephalogram have also been associated.
congenital pachyonychia	A group of inherited ectodermal dysplasias whose most prominent clinical feature is hypertrophic nail dystrophy resulting in PACHYONYCHIA. Several specific subtypes of pachyonychia congenita have been associated with mutations in genes that encode KERATINS.
coffin-siris syndrome	A rare genetic disorder with an undetermined pattern of inheritance affecting mostly females. Clinical signs at birth include recurrent respiratory infections, poor feeding, hypotonia, joint laxity and characteristic shortened fifth digits with hypoplastic or absent nails and craniofacial appearance: microcephaly, wide nose and lips, sparse scalp hair but thick eyebrows and eyelashes. The clinical course includes developmental delays in motor skills and speech with associated moderate mental retardation.
rieger's syndrome	A congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation, glaucoma, iris stroma hypoplasia, posterior embryotoxon, and corneal opacities. [HPO:probinson]
leprechaunism syndrome (diagnosis)	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome of extreme insulin resistance due to mutations in the binding domain of INSULIN RECEPTOR. Clinical features include severe intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction, characteristic dysmorphic FACIES; HIRSUTISM; VIRILIZATION; multiple endocrine abnormalities, and early death.
charge association--coloboma, heart anomaly, choanal atresia, retardation, genital and ear anomalies	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome usually caused by mutations in the CHD7 gene. The term CHARGE is an acronym for the following unusual congenital abnormalities that are associated with this syndrome: coloboma of the eye, heart defects, choanal atresia, growth and developmental retardation, genital, and ear abnormalities.
hydantoin; fetal syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
fetal warfarin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
lückenschadel -retired-	Multiple unossified area(s) of the cranium. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
polymelia	Polymelia is a congenital anomaly, which is defined as the presence of accessory limbs attached to various body regions and could be classified as cephalomelia (extra-limb attached to the head), notomelia (extra-limb attached to the back bone), thoracomelia (extra-limb attached to the thorax), and pyromelia (extra-limb attached to the pelvis). [PMID:23814690]
partial congenital absence of limb, nos	Partial absence of a free limb (excluding girdle). It can refer to the proximal, middle or distal segment of the upper or lower limb. The deficiency may be transverse or longitudinal. Thus, meromelia is a lack of a part, but not all, of one or more limbs with the presence of a hand or foot. [UToronto:chum]
congenital macrodactylia (disorder)	A condition in which a finger or toe is larger than normal size secondary to excessive growth of the anatomical structures or abnormal accumulation of substances.
polysyndactyly	A rare anatomical malformation characterized by polydactyly (extra fingers or toes) and syndactyly (webbed fingers or toes).
polysyndactyly syndrome (disorder)	A rare anatomical malformation characterized by polydactyly (extra fingers or toes) and syndactyly (webbed fingers or toes).
syndactyly of multiple digits (disorder)	A rare anatomical malformation characterized by polydactyly (extra fingers or toes) and syndactyly (webbed fingers or toes).
congenital cleft hand	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
claw hand	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
cleft hand	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
claw hands	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital radial head dislocation	A dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint. [HPO:curators]
phocomelia of upper limb nos (disorder)	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
upper limb; phocomelia	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
upper limb phocomelia	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of forepaw	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
supernumerary carpal bones	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
deformity; hip, congenital	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
congenital absence of foot and toe (diagnosis)	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
phocomelia; lower limb	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
lower limb; phocomelia	Phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
agenesis of femur (disorder)	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
feet talipes equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
talipes; calcaneovarus	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
synostoses, tarsal	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
foot syndactyly	Webbing or fusion of the toes, involving soft parts only or including bone structure. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the toes in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:curators]
bipartite; patella	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
rib fusion (diagnosis)	Complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hernia of foramen of morgagni	An anterior retrosternal or parasternal hernia that can result in the herniation of liver or intestines into the chest cavity. []
bochdalek hernias	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
pleuroperitoneal hernia	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
gastroschises	A congenital defect with major fissure in the ABDOMINAL WALL lateral to, but not at, the UMBILICUS. This results in the extrusion of VISCERA. Unlike OMPHALOCELE, herniated structures in gastroschisis are not covered by a sac or PERITONEUM.
laryngocele	Congenital anomalous dilitation of the laryngeal saccule that may extend internally into the airway or externally through the thyrohyoid membrane.
bronchial atresia [ambiguous]	A developmental anomaly characterised by focal obliteration of the proximal segment of a bronchus. The bronchial pattern is entirely normal distal to the site of stenosis. [UToronto:chum]
bilobed right lung (disorder)	A developmental defect of pulmonary lobation characterized by the presence of only two lobes of the right lung. [PMID:19500772]
cle	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
cle - congenital lobar emphysema	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
congenital emphysema	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
double outlet from morphologic left ventricular chamber (diagnosis)	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
preductal coarctation of aorta (disorder)	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized proximal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the preductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
hypoplastic aortic arch	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
kommerell diverticulum	A patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring. [DDD:dbrown]
anomalous origin of left circumflex artery from right coronary artery	An abnormal origin of the left circumflex artery (LCX) from the right coronary artery. Normally, the left anterior descending (LAD) and the LCX arise from a common stem, the left main coronary artery (LMCA). [PMID:27358682]
left; persistent superior vena cava	A rare congenital vascular anomaly that results when the left superior cardinal vein caudal to the innominate vein fails to regress. [PMID:18847480]
ichthyosis linearis circumflexa	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
nethertons syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
zinsser-engman-cole syndrome	A predominantly X-linked recessive syndrome characterized by a triad of reticular skin pigmentation, nail dystrophy and leukoplakia of mucous membranes. Oral and dental abnormalities may also be present. Complications are a predisposition to malignancy and bone marrow involvement with pancytopenia. (from Int J Paediatr Dent 2000 Dec;10(4):328-34) The X-linked form is also known as Zinsser-Cole-Engman syndrome and involves the gene which encodes a highly conserved protein called dyskerin.
witkop-von sallmann disease	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with variable penetrance. It was initially described among Native Americans belonging to the Haliwa-Saponi tribe of northeastern North Carolina. It is caused by a duplication of chromosomal DNA at 4q35. Clinical signs present in early childhood and include asymptomatic plaques of the epibulbar conjunctivae and oral mucosa. Clinical progression of the plaques to malignancy has not been reported.
birthmark (disorder)	<p>Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/skinpigmentationdisorders.html">Pigmented</a> birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/moles.html">Moles</a> can be birthmarks.</p> <p>No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery. </p> <p>Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider.</p>
naevus anaemicus	A congenital skin lesion characterized by irregular hypopigmented macules that coalesce to form plaques and occur particularly on the chest. It is generally present at birth or develops in the first days of life. It is more common in females. Diagnosis is confirmed by applying gentle friction to the lesion and the surrounding skin and checking that the erythema produced in the healthy skin does not appear in the hypopigmented lesion. This pale macule becomes more conspicuous when the lesion and its surroundings are rubbed. The margin of the naevus is ill-defined and consists of an archipelago of small anaemic spots. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
congenital digestive system anomalies	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
moon's molar teeth (disorder)	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
mesiodens tooth (diagnosis)	A supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:18262485, PMID:31468724]
tooth mass excess	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
taurodontism (diagnosis)	Increased volume of dental pulp of permanent molar characterized by a crown body-root ratio equal or larger than 1:1 or an elongated pulp chambers and apical displacement of the bifurcation or trifurcation of the roots. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
anterior crossbite	<p>Anterior crossbite</p>
caudal crossbite	<p>Posterior crossbite</p>
gap between upper and lower front teeth when biting	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
open; bite	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
naso-palatine duct cyst	A non-odontogenic cyst of developmental origin that arises in the midline of the anterior maxilla. It is found exclusively in the midline of the anterior hard palate. (WHO 2017)
congenital oesophageal anomaly nos	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital esophageal anomaly nos	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
unspecified anomalies of esophagus (disorder)	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital duplication of oesophagus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the esophagus. The duplicated segment may by tubular or cystic.
gallbladder; anomaly	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
gallbladder anomaly, unspecified (disorder)	An abnormality of the gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
absent gallbladder	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
congenital absence of liver	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
heteropic thyroid gland	Mislocalised thyroid gland. [HPO:sdoelken]
double kidney	A congenital abnormality of the kidney characterized by the presence of two separate pelvicocaliceal systems with a single or duplex ureter.
kidney fusions	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
renotubular dysgenesis	A developmental defect characterized by absence or poor development of proximal renal tubules. [HPO:probinson]
congenital dilatation of the renal pelvis	Collection of urine in the renal pelvis that results in dilatation of the renal pelvis and calyces that is present at birth.
congenital anomaly hydroureter	Dilatation of the ureter caused by obstruction of urine flow that is present at birth.
urethral valves	The presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra. [HPO:probinson]
urachus; patent or persistent	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
true hermaphroditisms, familial	A rare condition characterized by the unequivocal presence of both testicular and ovarian tissues in an individual. It is usually manifested with ambiguous external genitalia.
hermaphroditism, true	A rare condition characterized by the unequivocal presence of both testicular and ovarian tissues in an individual. It is usually manifested with ambiguous external genitalia.
genital ambiguities	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
genitalia ambiguous	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
congenital absence of ovary (diagnosis)	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
ectopic ovary (disorder)	Undescended or ectopic ovaries are characterized by the attachment of the upper pole of the ovary to an area above the level of the common iliac vessels. [PMID:12584384]
ovarian streaks	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
fallopian tube duplication	The presence of a supernumerary Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23532389]
anomaly; uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital uterine abnormalities	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
uterus; absence, congenital	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
uterus - bicornuate	The presence of a bicornuate uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of one uterine horn	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
uterus didelphus (disorder)	A malformation of the uterus in which the uterus is present as a paired organ as a result of the failure of fusion of the mullerian ducts during embryogenesis. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of uterus	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
absent cervix	Congenital absence of the cervix. []
double vagina	The presence of a vaginal septum, thereby creating a vaginal duplication. The septum is longitudinal in the majority of cases. [HPO:curators]
imperforate; vagina	Embryologic remnant consisting of a persistent connective tissue membrane within the vaginal vault.
anorchia, familial	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
vanishing testis syndrome (diagnosis)	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
polyorchidism	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
absence congenital deferens vas	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
absence deferens vas	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
brain malformation	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
hypoplasia cerebellar	Hypoplasia of the cerebellum that is associated with inherited metabolic disorders and neurodegenerative disorders. Signs and symptoms include mental and developmental delays, walking and balance difficulties, floppy muscle tone, and seizures.
colloid cyst of third ventricle	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
macrogyria (disorder)	Pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1,5-3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm (radiological definition). See also neuropathological definitions for 2-, 3-, and 4-layered lissencephaly. [COST:neuromig, HPO:probinson, PMID:22427329]
gray matter heterotopia	Heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons (gray matter), most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter. [COST:neuromig, ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22427329, PMID:25180909, PMID:7524438]
ecchordosis physaliphora (disorder)	A very rare, slow growing, usually asymptomatic hamartomatous lesion that arises from ectopic notochordal tissue. Morphologically it is characterized by the presence of typical physaliphorous cells in a myxoid background.
sinus pericranii [dup] (disorder)	Vzácné anomální spojení mezi intrakraniálním a extrakraniálním žilním oběhem přes diploe, střední houbovitou vrstvu lebečních kostí. Abnormální drenáž intrakraniálních žilních splavů vede často k dilataci žilních struktur skalpu. Onemocnění může být vrozené nebo způsobené poraněním.
lamellar cataract	A congenital cataract in which opacity is limited to layers of the lens external to the nucleus (i.e., the perinuclear region), i.e., between the nuclear and cortical layers of the lens. [HPO:probinson]
microphakia	Abnormal smallness of the lens. [HPO:probinson]
microcornea	A congenital abnormality of the cornea in which the cornea and the anterior segment of the eye are smaller than normal. The horizontal diameter of the cornea does not reach 10 mm even in adulthood. [HPO:probinson]
persistent hyaloid arteries	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
ptosis; eyelid, congenital	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
absent inner ear	Absence of the inner ear due to a developmental defect. [DDD:dfitzpatrick]
preauricular pits	Small indentation anterior to the insertion of the ear. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:19152421]
branchial cleft sinus	A congenital branchial sinus is a remnant of the embryonic branchial arches and their intervening clefts and pouches that has failed to regress completely. Sinuses typically have their external orifice inferior to the ramus of the mandible. They may traverse the parotid gland, and run in close vicinity to the facial nerve in the external auditory canal. [HPO:sdoelken]
heterotaxy	The abnormal arrangement or position of thoracic and/or abdominal organs in relation to each other, often occurring in a right/left transposition.
blighted ovum	Pregnancy loss with visible gestational sac or yolk sac or both but no visible embryo on ultrasonogram.
monophthalmus	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
congenital malformation brain amyelencephalus	Congenital absence of the spinal cord and brain
celosomia	Congenital protrusion of the abdominal or thoracic viscera, usually with a defect of the sternum and ribs as well as of the abdominal walls. [HPO:sdoelken]
twin reversed arterial perfusion sequence malformation	A condition which occurs in monozygotic twins in which one of the fetuses supplies the majority of the cardiac output to its co-twin through its umbilical artery. The recipient twin has only rudimentary organs and structure and is not viable.
placenta; duplex	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
placenta duplex	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
placenta increta (physical finding)	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium that does not cross the serosa.
placenta increta	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium that does not cross the serosa.
placenta percreta was observed	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium and serosa. It may further extend into an adjacent organ such as the bladder.
placenta percreta	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium and serosa. It may further extend into an adjacent organ such as the bladder.
placenta multipartita	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into more than two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
placenta multiplex	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into more than two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
circumvallate placenta	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes that are folded along all or part of the disc perimeter. The amnion may or may not be included in the folded tissue.
placenta nappiformis	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes that are folded along all or part of the disc perimeter. The amnion may or may not be included in the folded tissue.
marginal placenta	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
circummarginate placenta	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
placenta circummarginate	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
placenta marginata	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
abnormal umbilical cord anomalies	An abnormality of the umbilical cord, which is the cord connecting the developing embryo or fetus to the placenta. [HPO:probinson]
marginal insertion of umbilical cord (physical finding)	The location of the umbilical cord insertion at the disc edge.
marginal insertion of umbilical cord	The location of the umbilical cord insertion at the disc edge.
marginal cord insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion at the disc edge.
velamentous insertion of umbilical cord (disorder)	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
membranous insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
velamentous insertion of umbilical cord, unspecified trimester	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
bof - broncho-esophageal fistula	An abnormal connection between a bronchus and the esophagus.
gsl - galactosialidosis	An autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutation(s) in the CTSA gene, encoding lysosomal protective protein. It is characterized by a combined deficiency of neuraminidase and beta-galactosidase.
5-alpha reductase deficiency	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
syndrome, alstrom	Rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by multiple organ dysfunction. The key clinical features include retinal degeneration (NYSTAGMUS, PATHOLOGIC; RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA; and eventual blindness), childhood obesity, sensorineural hearing loss, and normal mental development. Endocrinologic complications include TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; HYPERINSULINEMIA; ACANTHOSIS NIGRICANS; HYPOTHYROIDISM; and progressive renal and hepatic failures. The disease is caused by mutations in the ALMS1 gene.
hepatic methionine adenosyltransferase deficiency	A metabolic disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MAT1A gene. Affected individuals usually do not have clinical abnormalities.
vasa previa	Pregnancy complication where fetal blood vessels, normally inside the umbilical cord, are left unprotected and cross FETAL MEMBRANES. It is associated with antepartum bleeding and FETAL DEATH and STILLBIRTH due to exsanguination.
perinatal jaundice due to inspissated bile syndrome	A syndrome characterized by persistent jaundice, hemolytic anemia, and hepatomegaly in a newborn. It is characterized by the presence of inspissated bile plugs in the bile ducts.
oculopharyngeal dystrophy	En autosomalt dominant, ärftlig sjukdom som debuterar sent i livet och vars kännetecken är sväljningssvårigheter och tilltagande ögonlocksnedfall. Mutationer i genen för poly(A)-bindande protein II har satts i samband med okulofaryngeal muskeldystrofi.
floppy baby	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
bruck-de lange syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
dystrophia retinae pigmentosa dysostosis syndrome	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
usher syndrome	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
laron-type dwarfism	En autosomal, recessiv störning, kännetecknad av kort kroppsväxt, defekt tillväxthormonreceptor och oförmåga att producera insulinliknande tillväxtfaktor I från tillväxthormonet. Syndromet är inte en form av hypofysär dvärgväxt, utan beror på en mutation i GHR-genen på kromosom 5 hos människa.
thyroid hormonogenesis, genetic defect in, 2b	A condition associated with reduced export of iodide across the apical membrane of the follicular cells of the thyroid gland that may progress to hypothyroidism. Pendred syndrome is associated with an increased risk of goiter and sensorineural hearing loss due to malformations of the inner ear (vestibular system). Inactivating mutations in the SLC26A4 gene encoding the pendrin transport protein are responsible for the condition.
schwachman's syndrome (disorder)	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
gingiva; cyst	An odontogenic cyst found in the alveolar mucosa. (WHO 2017)
lymphangiomatosis	A lymphangioma affecting several anatomic sites.
ankyloblepharon (disorder)	Partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue. [PMID:18125427]
anomaly; lens	Any anatomic abnormality or physiologic dysfunction of the lens of the eye that is present at the time of birth.
usher syndrome type 2 (diagnosis)	A syndrome characterized by congenital, bilateral sensorineural hearing loss that is mild to moderate in the low frequencies and severe to profound in the higher frequencies, no abnormalities in the vestibular system, and retinitis pigmentosa.
capillary malformation (diagnosis)	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
endemic cretinism - hypothyroid	Severely reduced physical and mental growth associated with pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, due to dietary iodine deficiency.
woodhouse sakati syndrome	Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome is a multisystemic disorder with characteristics of hypogonadism, alopecia, diabetes mellitus, intellectual deficit and extrapyramidal signs with choreoathetoid movements and dystonia. The onset is usually in adolescence. Additional manifestations may include sensorineural deafness, flattened T waves on ECG, seizures, sensory polyneuropathy, dysarthria, various craniofacial abnormalities (high forehead, flat occiput, triangular face, prominent nasal root, hypertelorism, and down-slanting palpebral fissures), scoliosis, hyperreflexia, and camptodactyly. Associated with mutations in the DCAF17 gene (2q31.1), encoding a nucleolar protein of unknown function. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
lipoid congenital adrenal hyperplasia	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
lymphangioma circumscriptum	A localized lymphangioma characterized by microcystic changes.
hypoplasia; corpus callosum	Underdevelopment of the corpus callosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
absence of tears in the eyes	Absence of tear secretion. [HPO:probinson]
congenital blue dot cataract (diagnosis)	Cerulean cataracts are a kind of congenital cataract having peripheral bluish and white opacifications in concentric layers with occasional central lesions arranged radially. Although the opacities may be observed during fetal development and childhood, usually visual acuity is only mildly reduced until adulthood, when lens extraction is generally necessary. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19496508, PMID:9158139]
hypoplasia of iris	Congenital underdevelopment of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
pupillary membrane; persistent	The presence of remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil. [HPO:probinson]
membrane; pupillary, persistent	The presence of remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil. [HPO:probinson]
persistent pupillary membrane	The presence of remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly; peter's	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
anomalies peters	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
ambiguous atrioventricular connection (diagnosis)	With left or right cardiac isomerism in a biventricular, the atrioventricular connections are perforce ambiguous, in that one of the connections is concordant (e.g., right-sided morphologic right atrium connected to a morphologic right ventricle) and one of the connections is discordant (e.g., left-sided morphologic right atrium connected to a morphologic left ventricle). [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
bilateral superior vena cava (disorder)	The presence of a left and a right superior vena cava. [PMID:18847480]
atrial septal defect, primum type	An ostium primum atrial septal defect is located in the most anterior and inferior aspect of the atrial septum. The ostium primum refers to an anterior and inferior opening (ostium) within the septum primum, which divides the rudimentary atrium during fetal development. The ostium primum is normally sealed by fusion of the superior and inferior endocardial cushions around 5 weeks' gestation. Ostium primum defects result from a failure of the fusion of the embryologic endocardial cushion and septum primum. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
pulmonary; atresia, in tetralogy of fallot	An extreme form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by absence of flow from the right ventricle to the pulmonary arteries. [ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22368654]
left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (disorder)	Obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract. It is caused by aortic valve, supravalvar, or subvalvar defects.
restrictive ventricular septal defect (disorder)	Any ventricular septal defect (VSD) that is small enough to restrict flow across it such that a pressure gradient exists between the two sides of the VSD. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:10798413]
membranous ventricular septal defect	A ventricular septal defect that is confluent with and involves the membranous septum and is bordered by an atrioventricular valve, not including the type 3 VSDs. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:10798413]
ventricular septal defect between left ventricle and right atrium (diagnosis)	The more common indirect type of communication where the flow of blood is from the left ventricle through a ventricular septal defect into the right ventricle and then through a defect in the tricuspid valve into the right atrium.
(right hypoplastic heart syndrome) or (pseudotruncus arteriosus)	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
pavsd - pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect	Pulmonary valve atresia associated with the presence of a large ventricular septal defect. It may be a severe form of tetralogy of Fallot.
pseudocoarctation of aorta	Pseudocoarctation is a congenital anomaly of kinking, or buckling, of the aorta without a pressure gradient across the lesion. It is characterized by elongation and kinking of the aorta at the level of the ligamentum arteriosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17593995, PMID:18651460]
interrupted aortic arch type b	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. [DDD:dbrown]
pericardium; absent	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
absence of pericardium (diagnosis)	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
hypoplastic gallbladder	The presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
diphallia	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
cake kidney (disorder)	Ren discoides - ledvina koláčová (ren fungiformis, scutulatus) ledviny jsou srostlé celou mediální plochou ve společný okrouhlý útvar (obě ledviny splynuly v jediný orgán).
radial polydactyly	A form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the thumb or great toe. [HPO:probinson]
preaxial polydactyly	A form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the thumb or great toe. [HPO:probinson]
lower limb undergrowth	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of femur (disorder)	An abnormal shortening of the femur. [HPO:probinson]
hereditary cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
birt hogg dube syndrome	Autosomal dominant neoplastic syndrome characterised by genodermatosis, lung cysts, spontaneous and recurrent PNEUMOTHORAX; and RENAL CANCER. It is associated with mutations in the folliculin protein gene (FLCN protein).
right ventricular dysplasia, arrhythmogenic	A congenital cardiomyopathy that is characterized by infiltration of adipose and fibrous tissue into the RIGHT VENTRICLE wall and loss of myocardial cells. Primary injuries usually are at the free wall of right ventricular and right atria resulting in ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias.
epulides, congenital	A congenital gingival tumor that occurs along the alveolar ridge of the maxilla. It usually affects female infants. The histogenesis is unknown. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of large cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Complete surgical resection is curative.
bilateral cheiloschisis	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on the left and right sides. [HPO:probinson]
sc phocomelia syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
pseudothalidomide syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
common atrium	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
teeth; absent	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
talon cusp	Talon cusp is an accessory cusp located near the cingulum (the portion of the lingual or palatal aspect of the tooth that forms a convex protuberance at the cervical third of the anatomic crown). [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
deciduous teeth, premature shedding	Loss of the primary (also known as deciduous) teeth before the usual age. [HPO:sdoelken]
large mandible	Malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar (mesioclusion).
congenital bilateral aplasia of vas deferens	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
congenital bilateral aplasia of vas deferens (disorder)	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
deficient perineum	Shortened distance between anus and genital tubercle. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
morbidly adherent placenta	A condition in which the placenta implants abnormally into the uterine myometrium, rather than implanting into the uterine decidua basalis as is normal.
morbidly adherent placentation	A condition in which the placenta implants abnormally into the uterine myometrium, rather than implanting into the uterine decidua basalis as is normal.
map - morbidly adherent placenta	A condition in which the placenta implants abnormally into the uterine myometrium, rather than implanting into the uterine decidua basalis as is normal.
autosomal recessive hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia	An autosomal recessive form of ectodermal dysplasia which is due to mutations in the gene for the EDAR RECEPTOR or EDAR-ASSOCIATED DEATH DOMAIN PROTEIN.
rudiger syndrome	A rare form of ectodermal dysplasia, inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, manifesting with varying degrees of severity, ectrodactyly and cleft lip/palate.
ectrodactyly-ectodermal dysplasia-clefting syndrome	A rare form of ectodermal dysplasia, inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, manifesting with varying degrees of severity, ectrodactyly and cleft lip/palate.
ectrodactyly-cleft lip-palate syndrome	A rare form of ectodermal dysplasia, inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, manifesting with varying degrees of severity, ectrodactyly and cleft lip/palate.
ectodermal dysplasia with ectrodactyly and cleft lip or palate	A rare form of ectodermal dysplasia, inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, manifesting with varying degrees of severity, ectrodactyly and cleft lip/palate.
hay-wells syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
gapos	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
growth retardation, alopecia, pseudoanodontia, and optic atrophy	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
odontotrichomelic syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
hypodontia with nail dysplasia	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It is associated with mutations in the MSX-1 gene on chromosome 4 which alter ectodermal morphogenesis. Characteristic clinical signs include absent or poorly-formed dentition and brittle, spoon-shaped finger and toenails. Clinical course features an increased incidence of dental caries but is essentially benign.
epilepsy, mental deterioration and yellow teeth	Ameliogenesis imperfecta, mental retardation, and epileptic seizures
olmsted syndrome	A hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma with characteristics of the combination of bilateral mutilating transgredient palmoplantar keratoderma and periorificial keratotic plaques.
dsh1	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by heterozygous mutation in the DSRAD gene. Most cases have been reported from countries in East Asia. It is characterized by the presence of hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules on the dorsal aspect of the extremities and face.
fukuyama muscular dystrophy	An autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the gene encoding fukutin (FKTN). It is associated with characteristic brain and eye malformations, seizures, and mental retardation.
multiminicore disease, severe classic form	An inherited muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the SEPN1 gene. It is characterized by severe limitation in flexion of the dorsolumbar and cervical spine, due to contracture of the spinal extensors. It leads to loss of movement of the spine and the thoracic cage.
emery-dreifuss muscular dystrophy, autosomal dominant	Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and caused by mutations in the LMNA gene.
x-linked myotubular myopathies	An X-linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. Primarily it affects males. Female carriers are usually asymptomatic. It is characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and hypotonia. The muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe. Newborns with severe X-linked centronuclear myopathy develop respiratory distress which may lead to respiratory failure requiring constant ventilator assistance. Patients with mild X-linked centronuclear myopathy usually require ventilator support during the newborn period only.
two rows of eyelashes	Double rows of eyelashes. [HPO:probinson]
distichiasis (disorder)	Double rows of eyelashes. [HPO:probinson]
decreased interpupillary distance	Interpupillary distance less than 2 SD below the mean (alternatively, the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
parietal encephalocele	An encephalocele located between bregma and lambda. [DDD:awilkie, PMID:2773494]
encephalocele parietal	An encephalocele located between bregma and lambda. [DDD:awilkie, PMID:2773494]
lipomeningocele (diagnosis)	A form of closed neural tube defect in which the spinal tissue lies within the spinal cord having a junction between the spinal cord and the lipoma. Intact skin covers the defect. Neurologic findings first appear during the second year of life. [UToronto:chum]
holoprosencephaly, familial alobar	A type of holoprosencephaly characterized by the presence of a single ventricle and no separation of the cerebral hemisphere. The single midline ventricle is often greatly enlarged. [gc:hpe]
partial agenesis of corpus callosum	A partial failure of the development of the corpus callosum. [HPO:curators]
dysplastic corpus callosum	Dysplasia and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum are nonspecific descriptions that imply defective development of the corpus callosum. The term dysplasia is applied when the morphology of the corpus callosum is altered as a congenital trait. For instance, the corpus callosum may be hump-shaped, kinked, or a striped corpus callosum that lacks an anatomically distinct genu and splenium. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
lissencephaly, classic	A genetic disorder caused by mutations in the LIS1, XLIS, or TUBA1A genes. It results in brain malformation characterized by the underdevelopment or absence of gyri or ridges in the cerebral cortex. Signs and symptoms include epilepsy and mental retardation.
lissencephaly type 2	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
hemimegalencephaly	Rare MALFORMATIONS OF CORTICAL DEVELOPMENT, GROUP I characterized by the enlargement of one side of the brain. It is associated with seizures, partial paralysis, and mental retardation.
cerebellar vermis agenesis	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
cardiofacial syndrome	Asymmetry observed in the face of a neonate or infant whose face appears symmetric at rest and asymmetric during crying as the mouth is pulled downward on one side while not moving on the other side. [HPO:cwright]
congenital anomalies of eye orbital dystopia vertical	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
posteriorly rotated auricles	A type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation (the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head, and the inferior part of the ears towards the front). [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
intrahepatic biliary atresia	A congenital disorder characterized by blockage or absence of the intrahepatic bile ducts.
intrahepatic atresia of bile duct	A congenital disorder characterized by blockage or absence of the intrahepatic bile ducts.
agenesis of lower vagina (disorder)	A failure to develop of the lower part of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
undescended testes - bilateral (disorder)	Absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
undergrowth of upper limb	Unilateral atrophy (reduction in size) of an arm. [HPO:probinson]
carpal fusions	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the carpus (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate, pisiform). [HPO:probinson]
ulnar polydactyly of fingers	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand (that is, on the side with the fifth finger). [HPO:sdoelken]
postaxial polydactyly of hand	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand (that is, on the side with the fifth finger). [HPO:sdoelken]
overgrowth of one leg	Overgrowth of only one leg. [HPO:probinson]
lower extremity deformities congen	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
proximal femoral focal deficiency	Proximal femoral focal deficiency is a deformity manifested by hypoplasia of a variable portion of the femur with shortening of the entire limb. [PMID:21438051, PMID:23915863, UToronto:chum]
split foot	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
split foot, unspecified lower limb	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
triphalangeal great toe (diagnosis)	A hallux (big toe) with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. [PMID:19760621, PMID:22486404]
2-3 finger syndactyly	Syndactyly with fusion of fingers two and three. [HPO:sdoelken]
cleft of primary palate (disorder)	Alveolar cleft is a tornado-shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch. Alveolar cleft occurs in response to divergence from normal development during frontonasal prominence growth, contact, and fusion. The most common alveolar portion of the cleft is located between the lateral incisor and the canine. []
craniosynostosis, sagittal	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the sagittal suture. [HPO:probinson]
cervical hemivertebrae	Absence of one half of the vertebral body in the cervical spine. []
cervical hemivertebra	Absence of one half of the vertebral body in the cervical spine. []
failure of vertebral segmentation (diagnosis)	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
congenital absence of muscle	Congenital lack of development of the muscles, which are then replaced by a mixture of dense fat and fibrous tissue. [HPO:probinson, Neuromics:vstraub]
trichorhinophalangeal dysplasia type i (diagnosis)	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
bullous type of ichthyosis	An autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis characterized by generalized reddening of the skin (ERYTHEMA) and widespread blistering. The disease shows similar, but somewhat milder, clinical and histopathological findings to those in HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC and is associated with the gene that encodes KERATIN-2A.
pretibial epidermolysis bullosa (disorder)	A type of blistering that affects the skin of the tibial region. [HPO:probinson, PMID:15265795]
microtia aortic arch syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
fetal isotretinoin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
fetal vitamin a syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
retinoic acid embryopathy (disorder)	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
book syndrome (disorder)	Book syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome reported in a Swedish family (25 cases from 4 generations), and one isolated case. The syndrome has characteristics of premolar aplasia, hyperhidrosis, and premature graying of the hair. Additional features reported in the isolated case include a narrow palate, hypoplastic nails, eyebrow anomalies, a unilateral simian crease, and poorly formed dermatoglyphics.
nervous system anomalies nos	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
maldescent of testis	A testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23061004, PMID:4380054]
sacral meningocele	A congenital abnormality in the sacral region of the spine in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
congenital notching of palpebral fissure (finding)	A congenital abnormality in which a part of the upper or lower eyelid tissue is missing.
muscle, liver, brain, eye nanism syndrome	Vrozená porucha růstu, která je způsobena mutací genu (TRIM37) na chromozomu 17q22-Q23, který kóduje RING-B-box-coiled-coil protein.
abnormal blue sclerae	An abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera. [HPO:probinson]
supernumerary metacarpal bone	The presence of more than the normal number of metacarpal bones. [HPO:curators]
fiber-type disproportions, congenital	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
syndrome watsons	Syndrom projevující se přítomností stenózy pulmonální chlopně, skvrnami bílé kávy, mentální retardací a malým vzrůstem v důsledku mutací genu NF1 (geny neurofibromatózy 1).
sacralized fifth lumbar vertebra	A congenital anomaly, in which the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra (L5) fuses to the sacrum on one side or both, or to ilium, or both. [UToronto:bgallinger]
sacralization of fifth lumbar vertebra	A congenital anomaly, in which the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra (L5) fuses to the sacrum on one side or both, or to ilium, or both. [UToronto:bgallinger]
incomplete formation of palatine bone	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
congenital hypoplasia of radius	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
camptodactyly (disorder)	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the ischial bones	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
incomplete ossification of pubis	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the pubic bone. []
abnormal lung lobation	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
muscular ventricular septal defect	The trabecular septum is the largest part of the interventricular septum. It extends from the membranous septum to the apex and superiorly to the infundibular septum. A defect in the trabecular septum is called muscular VSD if the defect is completely rimmed by muscle. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:17101870]
cleft lower jaw	Midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues. [PMID:19125436]
increased anogenital distance (disorder)	An indication that the anogenital distance is greater than the norm.
congenital hypoplasia of ovary (disorder)	Developmental hypoplasia of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
microblepharia	Abnormal shortness of the vertical dimensions of the eyelids. [http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/microblepharia]
congenital musculoskeletal deformity head acephalostomia	Absence of the head but with the presence of mouth-like orifice in the neck region. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
infantile pyloric stenosis	An abnormality characterized by thickening of the muscle in the wall of the pylorus. It results in the narrowing of the pyloric channel. The overlying mucosa may appear hypertrophic as well. Clinical signs and symptoms appear early in life and include projectile vomiting and dehydration.
absent finger	Aplasia of one or more fingers. [HPO:curators]
flhs	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the SRCAP gene, encoding helicase SRCAP. It is characterized by proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, delayed speech development, and typical facial features.
unspecified anomaly of upper limb, congenital	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
anomaly; upper limb	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
upper extremity deformites congen	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
semi-lobar holoprosencephaly	A type of holoprosencephaly in which the left and right frontal and parietal lobes are fused and the interhemispheric fissure is only present posteriorly. [gc:hpe]
cns vascular malformations	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
syndrome, bardet-biedl	En autosomal, recessiv störning kännetecknad av retinitis pigmentosa, polydaktyli, övervikt, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, hypogenitalism, njurdysplasi och kortvuxenhet. Syndromet skiljer sig från Laurence-Moons syndrom.
klefs1	A condition caused by mutation or deletion of the EHMT1 gene, encoding histone-lysine N-methyltransferase EHMT1. It is characterized by severe intellectual disability, hypotonia, cardiac defects, and characteristic facial features.
smith magenis syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by an interstitial deletion in chromosome 17p11.2. It is characterized by mild to moderate mental retardation, distinctive facial features (flat head, square face, and deep set-eyes), sleep disturbances, attention deficit disorders, and temper tantrums.
trisomy 17p (disorder)	A rare chromosomal abnormality resulting from the duplication of the short arm of chromosome 17 with characteristics of pre and post-natal growth retardation, developmental delay, hypotonia, digital abnormalities, congenital heart defects, and distinctive facial features. It has been described in fewer than 15 patients. Facial dysmorphism includes microcephaly, receding forehead, down-slanting palpebral fissures, ptosis, hypertelorism, low-set malformed ears, smooth philtrum, micrognathia, high-arched palate and a short broad neck. Digital abnormalities include absent fourth and fifth digits, brachydactyly and fifth finger clinodactyly. Genital hypoplasia in males and hypertrichosis are often observed. Intellectual deficit is severe to profound and the prognosis is poor. Trisomy 17p has been reported to be pure, as the result of a de novo 17p duplication or an extra chromosome derived from the 17p arm.
brachydactyly due to absence of distal phalanges	A multiple congenital anomalies, intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of sensorineural hearing loss, onychodystrophy, osteodystrophy, mild to profound intellectual disability and seizures. About 50 cases have been reported to date. Caused by mutations in the TBC1D24 gene (16p13.3) encoding a protein involved in the regulation of membrane trafficking. Inherited autosomal recessively.
eastman bixler syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, horseshoe kidney, and congenital heart defects. Four cases have been reported in the literature in two unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include plagiocephaly, malar hypoplasia, broad nasal bridge, poorly developed philtrum and nasal alae, cleft palate and hypodontia. Congenital heart defects were endocardial fibroelastosis in one family and prolapse of the tricuspid valve in the other. The condition is probably hereditary and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
faciocardiorenal syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, horseshoe kidney, and congenital heart defects. Four cases have been reported in the literature in two unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include plagiocephaly, malar hypoplasia, broad nasal bridge, poorly developed philtrum and nasal alae, cleft palate and hypodontia. Congenital heart defects were endocardial fibroelastosis in one family and prolapse of the tricuspid valve in the other. The condition is probably hereditary and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
assa	A developmental anomaly syndrome that resembles aminopterin embryopathy without history of exposure in utero to aminopterin. Main features include craniosynostosis, dysmorphic features including ocular hypertelorism, palpebral fissure anomalies, micrognathia cleft lip and/or high arched palate and small and low set/rotated ears.Limb anomalies include brachydactyly, syndactyly and clinodactyly. Also associated with mild-to-moderate intellectual deficit and short stature.
aminopterin syndrome sine aminopterin	A developmental anomaly syndrome that resembles aminopterin embryopathy without history of exposure in utero to aminopterin. Main features include craniosynostosis, dysmorphic features including ocular hypertelorism, palpebral fissure anomalies, micrognathia cleft lip and/or high arched palate and small and low set/rotated ears.Limb anomalies include brachydactyly, syndactyly and clinodactyly. Also associated with mild-to-moderate intellectual deficit and short stature.
syndactyly type i with microcephaly and mental retardation	Filippi syndrome has manifestations of microcephaly, cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers and toes, intellectual deficit, growth retardation and a characteristic facies (high and broad nasal bridge, thin alae nasi, micrognathia and a high frontal hairline). So far, less than 25 cases have been reported. Cryptorchidism, polydactyly and teeth and hair anomalies may also be present. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
fine lubinsky syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor delay, brachycephaly with flat face, small nose, microstomia, cleft palate, cataract, hearing loss, hypoplastic scrotum and digital anomalies. Less than 10 patients have been described in the literature so far. Although the majority of reported cases were sporadic, the syndrome has been reported in one pair of siblings (a brother and sister) with an apparently autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.
fountain syndrome	An extremely rare multi-systemic genetic disorder with characteristics of intellectual disability, deafness, skeletal abnormalities and coarse facial features.The syndrome is exceedingly rare and has been reported in only a few patients to date. Male and female patients have been described. The main clinical features include moderate to severe intellectual deficit, congenital sensorineural hearing impairment and broad, stubby hands and feet. A coarse face with full lips and cheeks is also found. These signs are reported to become more prominent with age. The pattern of inheritance appears to be autosomal recessive.
galloway syndrome	The association of nephrotic syndrome with central nervous system anomalies. Approximately 40 cases have been reported since it was first described in 1968 in two siblings with early-onset nephrotic syndrome, microcephaly and hiatus hernia. Renal biopsy may show minimal glomerular lesions, mesangial proliferation, focal segmental hyalinosis or diffuse mesangial sclerosis. Neurological symptoms include microcephaly, psychomotor retardation, convulsions, hypotonia, abnormal cerebral gyri and sulci, cortical atrophy, hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis, porencephaly or encephalomalacia. Histological analyses reveal anomalies of neuron migration. Facial dysmorphology and large ears have been reported as well as hiatus hernia, which is responsible for vomiting after the first feed. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by homozygous mutation in the WDR73 gene (616144) on chromosome 15q25.
cerebellotrigeminal dermal dysplasia syndrome	Syndrome that may be classified among the neurocutaneous syndromes, associates abnormalities of the cerebellum (rhombencephalosynapsis), cranial nerves (trigeminal anesthesia), and scalp (alopecia). It has been reported in 11 individuals so far. Other features observed in patients were craniosynostosis, midfacial hypoplasia, bilateral corneal opacities, low-set ears, short stature, moderate intellectual impairment and ataxia. Hyperactivity, depression, self-injurious behavior and bipolar disorder have also been reported.
hall riggs syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome consisting of microcephaly with facial dysmorphism, spondylometaphyseal dysplasia and severe intellectual deficit. Eight cases have been reported in the literature in two unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include hypertelorism, depressed nasal bridge, and large nose with a large nasal tip, anteverted nostrils and wide mouth with thick lips. Affected patients do not achieve language ability. The condition is probably hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
hardikar syndrome	A syndrome of multiple congenital malformations with an association of cleft lip and palate, patchy pigmentary retinopathy (cat's paw), obstructive liver disease (cholestasis, portal hypertension) and obstructive renal disease (ectopic ureteric insertion, obstruction, hydronephrosis). Gastrointestinal tract and cardiac involvement have also been reported. An overlap with Kabuki syndrome is debated.
cholestasis with pigmentary retinopathy and cleft palate syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome of multiple congenital malformations with an association of cleft lip and palate, patchy pigmentary retinopathy (cat's paw), obstructive liver disease (cholestasis, portal hypertension) and obstructive renal disease (ectopic ureteric insertion, obstruction, hydronephrosis). Gastrointestinal tract and cardiac involvement have also been reported. An overlap with Kabuki syndrome is debated.
harrod doman keele syndrome	The association of intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism (a highly arched palate, pointed chin, and small mouth, hypotelorism, a long nose and large protruding ears), arachnodactyly, hypogenitalism (undescended testes and hypospadias) and failure to thrive. So far, it has been described in three males (including two brothers). An autosomal recessive mode of transmission has been suggested.
craniofacial digital genital anomalies	The association of intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism (a highly arched palate, pointed chin, and small mouth, hypotelorism, a long nose and large protruding ears), arachnodactyly, hypogenitalism (undescended testes and hypospadias) and failure to thrive. So far, it has been described in three males (including two brothers). An autosomal recessive mode of transmission has been suggested.
jackson-weiss syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by the premature fusion of the bones of the skull (craniosynostosis) and foot abnormalities. The craniosynostosis results in a malformed skull, widely spaced eyes, and a bulging forehead. The foot abnormalities consist of short and wide first toes, which bend away from the other toes. In addition, syndactyly in some toes may be present. The hands are almost always normal.
johnson neuroectodermal syndrome	Johnson neuroectodermal syndrome has characteristics of alopecia, anosmia or hyposmia, conductive deafness with malformed ears and microtia and/or atresia of the external auditory canal and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. So far, less than 30 cases have been described in the literature. Other variable features include a congenital heart defect, facial asymmetry, intellectual deficit, cleft palate, choanal stenosis and an increased tendency for dental caries. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. The combination of developmental anomalies present in patients with this syndrome is suggestive of an embryological defect in the formation of the neuroectodermal derivatives of cephalic neural crest.
juberg marsidi syndrome (disorder)	An X-linked mental retardation syndrome belonging to the group of conditions with the association of intellectual deficit and hypotonic facies. Prevalence is unknown but since its initial description in 1980 several unrelated families with affected males have been reported. The syndrome has characteristics of facial dysmorphism (a flat and broad nasal bridge, prominent forehead, up-slanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism and various ear anomalies), growth failure, sensorineural deafness, microgenitalism and severe intellectual deficit. Inheritance is X-linked recessive and the syndrome is caused by mutations in the ATRX gene (Xq13.3).
niikawa-kuroki syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene (also known as MLL2) or the KDM6A gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial features including arched eyebrows, long eyelashes, long palpebral fissures with the lower lids turned out at the outside edges, a flat nose, and large protruding earlobes, developmental delay and intellectual disability.
kapur-toriello syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism, severe intellectual deficiency, cardiac and intestinal anomalies, and growth retardation. Only four cases have been reported in the literature, in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include bilateral cleft lip and palate, bulbous nasal tip and eye anomalies. The condition seems to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
kapur toriello syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism, severe intellectual deficiency, cardiac and intestinal anomalies, and growth retardation. Only four cases have been reported in the literature, in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include bilateral cleft lip and palate, bulbous nasal tip and eye anomalies. The condition seems to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
mental retardation, cleft palate, eventration of diaphragm, congenital heart defect, glaucoma, craniosynostosis, and growth failure	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of microcephaly, craniosynostosis, glaucoma, growth failure and visceral malformations. Only three cases have been reported in the literature in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include trigonocephaly, exotropia, cleft palate, beaked nose and low-set ears. All the affected patients have associated congenital visceral malformations including congenital heart defects, diaphragmatic hernia, genital or cerebral abnormalities. The demonstration of congenital glaucoma, hallmark of the syndrome, in the father of an affected patient, supports autosomal dominant inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
prominent glabella microcephaly hypogenitalism	A very rare syndrome described in two siblings with manifestation of prenatal onset of growth deficiency, microcephaly, hypoplastic genitalia, and birth onset of convulsions.
mental retardation, peculiar facies, kyphoscoliosis, diastasis recti, cryptorchidism, and congenital heart defect	Belongs to the group of multiple congenital anomalies/mental retardation syndromes with intellectual deficit, distinctive facies (upward slanting palpebral fissures, squint), kyphoscoliosis, diastasis recti, cryptorchidism, and a congenital heart defect. Autosomal recessive inheritance suggested.
microcephaly deafness syndrome	This syndrome has manifestations of microcephaly, deafness, intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism (facial asymmetry, prominent glabella, low-set and cup-shaped ears, protruding lower lip, micrognathia). It has been described in a mother and her son. The mode of inheritance is probably autosomal dominant.
jawad syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of congenital microcephaly with facial dysmorphism (sloping forehead, prominent nose, mild retrognathia), moderate to severe, non-progressive intellectual disability and symmetrical digital malformations of variable degree, including brachydactyly of the fifth fingers with single flexion crease, clinodactyly, syndactyly, polydactyly and hallux valgus. Congenital anonychia and white cafe au lait-like spots on the skin of hands and feet are also associated. There is evidence this disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the RBBP8 gene on chromosome 18q11.2.
microcephaly-digital anomalies syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of congenital microcephaly with facial dysmorphism (sloping forehead, prominent nose, mild retrognathia), moderate to severe, non-progressive intellectual disability and symmetrical digital malformations of variable degree, including brachydactyly of the fifth fingers with single flexion crease, clinodactyly, syndactyly, polydactyly and hallux valgus. Congenital anonychia and white cafe au lait-like spots on the skin of hands and feet are also associated. There is evidence this disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the RBBP8 gene on chromosome 18q11.2.
microphthalmia, dermal aplasia, and sclerocornea	Syndrome with characteristics of ocular defects (microphthalmia, orbital cysts, corneal opacities) and linear skin dysplasia of the neck, head, and chin. It has been reported in less than 50 patients. Additional findings may include agenesis of corpus callosum, sclerocornea, chorioretinal abnormalities, hydrocephalus, seizures, intellectual deficit, and nail dystrophy. It is transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait with male lethality.
mutchinick syndrome	A rare intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of growth retardation, microcephaly, characteristic facial features (including narrow forehead, bushy eyebrows, hypertelorism, small, downward-slanting palpebral fissures with blepharoptosis, malformed and low-set ears, broad straight nose, thin upper lip and a wide, tented mouth), developmental delay, intellectual disability, speech disorder, and multiple organ malformations (e.g. ventricular septal defect, megaloureter, dilated renal pelvis). Additional manifestations reported include neurocutaneous lesions (including palmoplantar hyperkeratosis), internal hydrocephalus, and bilateral partial soft-tissue syndactyly of second and third toe.
neurofaciodigitorenal syndrome	A multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of neurological abnormalities (including megalencephaly, hypotonia, intellectual disability, abnormal EEG), dysmorphic facial features (high prominent forehead, grooved nasal tip, ptosis, ear anomalies) and acrorenal defects (such as triphalangism, broad halluces, unilateral renal agenesis). Additionally, intrauterine growth restriction, short stature and congenital heart defects may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
nfdr syndrome	A multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of neurological abnormalities (including megalencephaly, hypotonia, intellectual disability, abnormal EEG), dysmorphic facial features (high prominent forehead, grooved nasal tip, ptosis, ear anomalies) and acrorenal defects (such as triphalangism, broad halluces, unilateral renal agenesis). Additionally, intrauterine growth restriction, short stature and congenital heart defects may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
microlissencephaly type a	Lissencephaly syndrome, Norman-Roberts type is the association of lissencephaly type I with craniofacial anomalies (severe microcephaly, a low sloping forehead, a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes) and postnatal growth retardation. Severe intellectual deficit, spasticity and epilepsy are also present. Mutations in the RELN gene (7q22) have been identified in some patients. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
lissencephaly syndrome, norman-roberts type	Lissencephaly syndrome, Norman-Roberts type is the association of lissencephaly type I with craniofacial anomalies (severe microcephaly, a low sloping forehead, a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes) and postnatal growth retardation. Severe intellectual deficit, spasticity and epilepsy are also present. Mutations in the RELN gene (7q22) have been identified in some patients. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
juberg-hayward syndrome	A polymalformation syndrome that associates multiple skeletal anomalies with microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, urogenital anomalies and intellectual deficit.
oral-facial-digital syndrome, type viii	A polymalformation syndrome that associates multiple skeletal anomalies with microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, urogenital anomalies and intellectual deficit.
oral-facial-digital syndrome type 9	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome ix	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 9 (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
oral-facial-digital syndrome with retinal abnormalities	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome with retinal abnormalities	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 9	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
w syndrome	W syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, epileptic seizures and facial dysmorphism. Skeletal anomalies are also often present. To date, it has been described in six male patients. The mode of transmission appears to be X-linked dominant.
perlman syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by the presence of polyhydramnios, neonatal macrosomia, craniofacial abnormalities, nephroblastomatosis, and predisposition to Wilms tumor. The prognosis is poor.
prims	A rare genetic intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of macrocephaly, hypotonia, dysmorphic facial features (wide forehead, ptosis, downslanting palpebral fissures, enlarged and calcified external ears, large jaw), sparse body hair and tall stature. Hearing loss, insulin-resistant diabetes, and progressive distal muscle wasting (leading to joint contractures) have also been reported in adulthood. Rare manifestations include hypothyroidism, cerebral calcification, ataxia and peripheral neuropathy. There is evidence this disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the ZBTB20 gene on chromosome 3q13.
corpus callosum, agenesis of, with abnormal genitalia	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of agenesis of the corpus callosum, mild to severe neurological manifestations (intellectual disability, developmental delay, epilepsy, dystonia), and urogenital anomalies (hypospadias, cryptorchidism, renal dysplasia, ambiguous genitalia). Additionally skeletal anomalies (limb contractures, scoliosis), dysmorphic facial features (large eyes, prominent supraorbital ridges, synophrys) and optic atrophy have been observed. The disease is caused by mutation in the ARX gene.
dandy-walker-like malformation with atrioventricular septal defect	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
cranio-cerebello-cardiac dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
ritscher schinzel syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
ritscher-schinzel syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
hallux duplication, postaxial polydactyly, and absence of corpus callosum	Autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by hypogenesis or agenesis of CORPUS CALLOSUM. Clinical features include MENTAL RETARDATION; CRANIOFACIAL ABNORMALITIES; digital malformations, and growth retardation.
acrocallosal syndrome	Autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by hypogenesis or agenesis of CORPUS CALLOSUM. Clinical features include MENTAL RETARDATION; CRANIOFACIAL ABNORMALITIES; digital malformations, and growth retardation.
mental retardation smith fineman myers type	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X caracterizado por dismorfismo facial (fisuras palpebrales inclinadas, cara estrecha, micrognatia, labio inferior distendido, filtrum plano o pequeño y exotropía y ptosis alternantes), baja estatura, hipotonía temprana y posteriormente hipertonía, incisivos centrales superiores prominentes, deformidades de los pies (pie plano, metatarso varo, equinovaro), retraso psicomotor y problemas de conducta. Se desconoce la prevalencia. Desde la descripción inicial en 1980 el trastorno se describió en varones de 11 familias y en un caso aislado. En la mayoría de los casos el síndrome se produce por mutaciones en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3); sin embargo, el gen causal en una gran familia china se localizó en un intervalo de 19,8 Mb sobre Xq25. La transmisión es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
smith fineman myers syndrome (disorder)	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X caracterizado por dismorfismo facial (fisuras palpebrales inclinadas, cara estrecha, micrognatia, labio inferior distendido, filtrum plano o pequeño y exotropía y ptosis alternantes), baja estatura, hipotonía temprana y posteriormente hipertonía, incisivos centrales superiores prominentes, deformidades de los pies (pie plano, metatarso varo, equinovaro), retraso psicomotor y problemas de conducta. Se desconoce la prevalencia. Desde la descripción inicial en 1980 el trastorno se describió en varones de 11 familias y en un caso aislado. En la mayoría de los casos el síndrome se produce por mutaciones en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3); sin embargo, el gen causal en una gran familia china se localizó en un intervalo de 19,8 Mb sobre Xq25. La transmisión es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
sonoda syndrome	A very rare syndrome described in three siblings of one Japanese family with main features of congenital heart disease, round face with depressed nasal bridge, small mouth, short stature, and relatively dark skin and typical dermatoglyphic anomalies, and intellectual deficit.
spinocerebellar ataxia dysmorphism syndrome	Syndrome that is marked by characteristic facies associated with dysarthria, delayed psychomotor development, ataxia, scoliosis and foot deformities. Three cases have been described and transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
spinocerebellar ataxia dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome that is marked by characteristic facies associated with dysarthria, delayed psychomotor development, ataxia, scoliosis and foot deformities. Three cases have been described and transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
spondyloperipheral dysplasia	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL2A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(II) chain. It is characterized by short stature, pugilistic facies, midface hypoplasia, spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, kyphosis, short ulna, and absent styloid process. Mutation(s) in the same gene are responsible for Kniest dysplasia.
tbhs	A rare genetic disease with characteristics of hypertelorism with facial features that can closely resemble craniofrontonasal dysplasia, such as prominent forehead, widow's peak, heavy and broad eyebrows, long palpebral fissures, ptosis, high and broad nasal bridge, short nose, low-set ears, natal teeth, thin upper lip and a grooved chin. Limb features include fifth-finger clinodactyly, pes adductus, mild interdigital webbing. Urogenital features include bilateral cryptorchidism and shawl scrotum in males. Other manifestations include umbilical hernia/omphalocele and cardiac defects. Psychomotor development is normal.
acromelic frontonasal dysplasia	A rare variant of frontonasal dysplasia characterized by distinct craniofacial (large fontanelle, hypertelorism, bifid nasal tip, nasal clefting, brachycephaly, median cleft face, carp-shaped mouth), brain (interhemispheric lipoma, agenesis of the corpus callosum), and limb (tibial hypoplasia/aplasia, club foot, symmetric preaxial polydactyly of the feet and bilateral clubbed and thickened nail malformations as well as intellectual disability.
toriello-carey syndrome	A multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial dysmorphic features, cerebral anomalies, swallowing difficulties, cardiac defects and hypotonia. Main clinical signs include telecanthus, short palpebral fissures, small nose with anteverted nares, Pierre Robin sequence, abnormally shaped ears, redundant neck skin and features of midline structural abnormalities with agenesis of corpus callosum, laryngeal anomalies and congenital heart defects. Short hands and hypotonia may also be observed. Patients have a moderate to severe intellectual disability. There is evidence that this is a heterogeneous condition, with chromosome anomalies identified in approximately 20%, and at least two candidate genes identified: MN1 (22q12.1) which has been reported in a microdeletion and SATB2 (2q33.1), interrupted by a de novo balanced translocation in another patient.
intellectual disability and short stature with hand contracture and genital anomaly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, short stature, obesity, genital abnormalities, and hand and/or toe contractures. It has been described in two brothers and in one isolated case. This syndrome is similar to Prader-Willi syndrome, but the hand contractures and osteoporosis, together with the lack of hypotonia, indicate this is a different entity.
van den bosch syndrome (diagnosis)	Syndrome that is characterized by intellectual deficit, choroideremia, acrokeratosis verruciformis, anhidrosis, and skeletal deformities. It has been observed in a single kindred. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked recessive trait and may be caused by a small X-chromosome deletion.
pashayan syndrome	A rare otorhinolaryngological malformation syndrome with characteristics of a distinctive mask-like facial dysmorphism, lacrimal duct obstruction, extrapyramidal features, digital malformations and intellectual disability. Reported in 3 families to date. The facies has a mask-like appearance due to weakness of facial muscles and lacrimal duct obstruction is characteristic. Clinical features also include telecanthus, bulky nose, broad nasal bridge, sometimes a hypoplastic midface, longitudinal cheek furrows, trapezoidal upper lip and malformation of the ears. Intellectual disability, cutaneous syndactyly, torsion dystonia, increased deep tendon reflexes; Babinski sign, poor coordination and joint laxity are also observed.
weaver williams syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of moderate-to-severe intellectual disability, decreased muscle mass, microcephaly, facial dysmorphism (prominent ears, midfacial hypoplasia, small mouth and cleft palate), clinodactyly of the fingers, delayed osseous maturation and general bone hypoplasia. The syndrome has been described in a brother and sister and an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1977.
wrwf	A severe X-linked recessive neurodevelopmental disorder with the association of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita and intellectual disability. The syndrome has been reported in 5 families to date, with fewer than 30 affected individuals described. Affected patients are male, while carrier females are often asymptomatic. Facial weakness (ptosis) and bulbar weakness (feeding difficulty), characteristic dysmorphic facial and skeletal abnormalities have been reported. Other neurological signs may include spasticity and seizures. Heterozygous female carriers may also be affected, but to a lesser degree (intellectual disability, distal muscle weakness, camptodactyly, joint contractures, and pes equinovarus). Caused by mutations in the ZC4H2 gene (Xq11.1) that is presumed to play a role in neuronal function during fetal growth.
congenital suprabulbar paresis (disorder)	A form of cerebral palsy with characteristics of congenital pseudobulbar (suprabulbar) paresis manifesting as selective weakness of the lips, tongue and soft palate, dysphagia, dysphonia, drooling and jaw jerking. Mean age at diagnosis is 6 years. The main clinical features are spasticity and limited movements around the mouth and throat from an early age, and brisk jaw jerks. Most cases are sporadic but several families with more than one affected member have been reported. Inheritance in these families appeared to follow an autosomal dominant pattern with variable expression and penetrance.
c-like syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, failure to thrive, facial dysmorphism, flexion deformities of the elbows and wrists, camptodactyly, ulnar deviation of the fingers, foot anomalies and severe developmental delay. Less than 20 patients have been described so far. Although the large majority of reported cases occurred sporadically, autosomal recessive inheritance has also been reported.
bohring-opitz syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, failure to thrive, facial dysmorphism, flexion deformities of the elbows and wrists, camptodactyly, ulnar deviation of the fingers, foot anomalies and severe developmental delay. Less than 20 patients have been described so far. Although the large majority of reported cases occurred sporadically, autosomal recessive inheritance has also been reported.
wilson-turner syndrome	A very rare X-linked multisystem genetic disease characterised by intellectual disability, truncal obesity, gynaecomastia, hypogonadism, dysmorphic facial features, and short stature. The syndrome has been described in two families to date. The syndrome has been linked to a mutation in the consensus donor splice site of the histone deacetylase 8 HDAC8 gene (Xq13). X-linked recessive transmission and X-linked dominant inheritance with absence of male-to-male transmission have been reported.
sex-linked mental retardation, short stature, obesity and hypogonadism	A rare X-linked intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of intellectual disability associated with short stature, obesity, primary hypogonadism and an ichthyosiform skin condition. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1982.
thick lips and oral mucosa	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of a progressively coarse acromegaloid-like facial appearance, thickening of the lips and intraoral mucosa, large and doughy hands and, in some cases, developmental delay. The syndrome appears to be part of a phenotypic spectrum that includes hypertrichotic osteochondrodysplasia, Cantu type and hypertrichosis-acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome.
acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of a progressively coarse acromegaloid-like facial appearance, thickening of the lips and intraoral mucosa, large and doughy hands and, in some cases, developmental delay. The syndrome appears to be part of a phenotypic spectrum that includes hypertrichotic osteochondrodysplasia, Cantu type and hypertrichosis-acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome.
congenital cataract with hypertrichosis and intellectual disability syndrome	This syndrome is characterised by congenital cataract, generalised hypertrichosis and intellectual deficit. It has been described in two Egyptian siblings born to consanguineous parents. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
branchioskeletogenital syndrome	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome, described in three boys from one family. The syndrome has characteristics of intellectual disability, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism, bifid uvula or partial cleft palate, multiple dental cysts, Schmorl nodes, fused cervical spinous processes, pectus excavatum, and penoscrotal hypospadias. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1971.
branchioskeletogenital syndrome (diagnosis)	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome, described in three boys from one family. The syndrome has characteristics of intellectual disability, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism, bifid uvula or partial cleft palate, multiple dental cysts, Schmorl nodes, fused cervical spinous processes, pectus excavatum, and penoscrotal hypospadias. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1971.
esws	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome, described in three boys from one family. The syndrome has characteristics of intellectual disability, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism, bifid uvula or partial cleft palate, multiple dental cysts, Schmorl nodes, fused cervical spinous processes, pectus excavatum, and penoscrotal hypospadias. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1971.
des (diethylstilbestrol) syndrome	A disorder likely to occur in children and grandchildren of a woman treated with diethylstilbestrol during pregnancy. Manifestations include vaginal adenosis, cervical malformations, vaginal septae, genital tract anomalies or Fallopian tube anomalies causing subsequent fertility problems.
becker	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
osteolyses, multicentric	Rare, autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by ACRO-OSTEOLYSIS, generalized OSTEOPOROSIS, and skull deformations.
porokeratosis	A clonal disorder of keratinization with one or multiple atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella. [HPO:skoehler]
hoyeraal hreidarsson syndrome	Dyskeratosis congenita inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. It is caused by mutations in the DKC1 gene.
cfc	A rare genetic syndrome most often caused by BRAF gene mutations. It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance (high forehead, short nose, and widely spaced eyes), sparse and brittle hair, skin disorders, heart malformations, mental retardation and developmental delay.
pena-shokeir syndrome type i	Decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures, facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia. Ultrasound examination may reveal polyhydramnios, ankylosis, scalp edema, and decreased chest movements (reflecting pulmonary hypoplasia). [HPO:probinson]
incomplete bone formation (finding) [ambiguous]	A finding of partial or decreased ossification, as indicated by reduced stain uptake.
absence of permanent teeth	A congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth, including oligodontia, hypodontia, and adontia of the of permanent teeth. [HPO:probinson]
general fibrosis syndrome (disorder)	Congenital non-progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions. Typically, there is ptosis and variable degrees of restriction of horizontal and vertical eye movements. [HPO:probinson]
pregnancy; abnormal placenta	An abnormality of the placenta, the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange. [HPO:probinson]
anomaly of placenta	An abnormality of the placenta, the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange. [HPO:probinson]
autosomal recessive malignant osteopetrosis	A rare congenital disorder of bone resorption characterised by generalised skeletal densification. Bone marrow failure, fractures and visual impairment are the classical features of the disease, which begins in early infancy or in fetal life. It results from the failure of osteoclasts to resorb immature bone. This leads to abnormal bone marrow cavity formation and to the clinical signs and symptoms of bone marrow failure. It is accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly due to compensatory extramedullary hematopoiesis. The disease is heterogeneous. Over 50% of cases are due to mutations in the TCIRG1 gene and another 10% are due to mutations in the CLCN7 gene. A small number of patients have been described with mutations in the OSTM1 gene. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
marfanoid disorder with craniosynostosis, type i	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited syndrome often caused by mutations in the SKI gene. It is characterized by premature fusion of skull bones and distinctive facial features, including a long, narrow head, hypertelorism, exophthalmos, downslanting palpebral fissures, a high, narrow palate, micrognathia, and low-set ears. The bodies of affected individuals resemble those of people with Marfan syndrome.
revesz syndrome	A rare severe phenotypic variant of dyskeratosis congenita with onset in early childhood. The syndrome has features of dyskeratosis congenita (for example skin hyper/hypopigmentation, nail dystrophy, high risk of bone marrow failure and cancer, developmental delay sparse and fine hair) in conjunction with bilateral exudative retinopathy and intracranial calcifications.
wt limb blood syndrome	Syndrome is characterised by haematological anomalies (Fanconi anaemia, leukaemia and lymphoma) often appearing during childhood. Anomalies of the limbs and hands are also present: bifid or hypoplastic thumbs, cutaneous syndactyly and ulnar and radial defects. The syndrome has been described in several families. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
laryngo-onycho-cutaneous syndrome	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
schwannomatosis	A rare genetic disorder characterized by the presence of multiple schwannomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C6557" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C6557" NCI Thesaurus)
azoospermia factor	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
hypospadias, coronal	A mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis. [HPO:probinson]
fromont anomaly	Supernumerary digits located at the radial side of the hand. Polydactyly (supernumerary digits) involving the thumb occurs in many distinct forms of high variability and severity. Ranging from fleshy nubbins over varying degrees of partial duplication/splitting to completely duplicated or even triplicated thumbs or preaxial (on the radial side of the hand) supernumerary digits. [HPO:probinson]
bilateral cleft lip/palate	Cleft lip and cleft palate affecting both sides of the face. [HPO:probinson]
shovel-shaped incisors	Incisor that has marked lateral borders occurring lingually.
acrocephalosyndactyly (diagnosis)	Congenital craniostenosis with syndactyly.
oral-facial-digital syndrome, type i	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 1 (disorder)	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
gorlin psaume syndrome	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
ofd i - orofacial-digital syndrome i	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
andersen-tawil syndrome	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
lqt7	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
andersen cardiodysrhythmic periodic paralysis	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
usher syndrome type 1 (disorder)	A syndrome characterized by congenital, bilateral, severe sensorineural hearing loss, abnormalities in the vestibular system, and adolescent-onset retinitis pigmentosa.
duane-radial ray syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
syndrome, acrorenoocular	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
duane radial ray syndrome	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
syndrome, duane-radial ray	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-oesophageal fistula, renal anomalies, limb defects (vacterl) syndrome	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
x-linked cdlss	An X-linked inherited form of Cornelia De Lange syndrome caused by mutations in the SMC1A gene mapped to chromosome Xp11.22. Patients have a milder form of the syndrome compared to patients with the NIPBL gene mutation.
navajo brainstem syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of deafness, central hypoventilation, congenital ocular paralysis and developmental retardation. Cardiac anomalies and paralysis of the vocal chords may also be present. Six cases have been reported so far. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
bosley-salih-alorainy syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of variable horizontal gaze dysfunction, profound and bilateral sensorineural deafness associated commonly with severe inner ear maldevelopment, cerebrovascular anomalies, cardiac malformation, developmental delay and occasionally autism. The syndrome is caused by homozygous mutations in the HOXA1 gene (7p15.2) and is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner. The syndrome overlaps clinically and genetically with Athabaskan brain dysfunction syndrome, however unlike Athabaskan brain dysfunction syndrome it does not manifest central hypoventilation.
cerebro-facio-articular syndrome of van maldergem	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with mild to severe intellectual disability, a distinctive facial gestalt (blepharophimosis, maxillary hypoplasia, telecanthus, microtia and atresia of the external auditory meatus) as well as skeletal and articular abnormalities (e.g. camptodactyly of the fingers, cutaneous syndactyly, talipes equinovarus, flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints, hip or elbow subluxation, joint laxity). May also present with neonatal hypotonia, variable respiratory manifestations, chronic feeding difficulties and gray matter heterotopia.
cerebrofacioarticular syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with mild to severe intellectual disability, a distinctive facial gestalt (blepharophimosis, maxillary hypoplasia, telecanthus, microtia and atresia of the external auditory meatus) as well as skeletal and articular abnormalities (e.g. camptodactyly of the fingers, cutaneous syndactyly, talipes equinovarus, flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints, hip or elbow subluxation, joint laxity). May also present with neonatal hypotonia, variable respiratory manifestations, chronic feeding difficulties and gray matter heterotopia.
muscle contractions, tetanoform, with characteristic face, camptodactyly, hyperthermia, and sudden death	A severe disorder with characteristics of muscular contractions at birth, intermittent hyperthermia, facial abnormalities and camptodactyly. Since the first description of the disease in 1996, it has been described in less than 30 patients from 13 Italian (mainly Sardinian) families. Extensive paroxysmal muscular contractions in the face (resembling neonatal tetanus) develop after minimal stimuli. All patients described to date displayed facial anomalies, including a large face, chubby cheeks, a broad nose with anteverted nostrils and long philtrum and bilateral camptodactyly. Early in the neonatal period continuous hyperthermia develops (unrelated to infectious agents). Mutations in the CRLF1 gene are causative. Belongs to a group of conditions with overlapping features, including cold-induced sweating syndromes and Stüve-Wiedemann syndrome. The disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
cold-induced sweating syndrome	A severe disorder with characteristics of muscular contractions at birth, intermittent hyperthermia, facial abnormalities and camptodactyly. Since the first description of the disease in 1996, it has been described in less than 30 patients from 13 Italian (mainly Sardinian) families. Extensive paroxysmal muscular contractions in the face (resembling neonatal tetanus) develop after minimal stimuli. All patients described to date displayed facial anomalies, including a large face, chubby cheeks, a broad nose with anteverted nostrils and long philtrum and bilateral camptodactyly. Early in the neonatal period continuous hyperthermia develops (unrelated to infectious agents). Mutations in the CRLF1 gene are causative. Belongs to a group of conditions with overlapping features, including cold-induced sweating syndromes and Stüve-Wiedemann syndrome. The disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
amelia, autosomal recessive	Syndrome with characteristics of absence of the upper limbs and severe underdevelopment of the lower limbs. Minor facial abnormalities (depressed nasal root, upturned nose, infra-orbital creases, prominent cheeks and micrognathia) were also reported. The syndrome has been described in three fetuses born to non-consanguineous parents.
chitty hall baraitser syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of sensorineural deafness, short stature, femoral epiphyseal dysplasia, umbilical and inguinal hernias and developmental delay (growth retardation and mild intellectual deficit). It has been described in two brothers born to consanguineous parents. They also have dysmorphic features (triangular face, pointed chin) and bilateral obstruction of lacrimal ducts. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
growth retardation, deafness, femoral epiphyseal dysplasia, and lacrimal duct obstruction	This syndrome has characteristics of sensorineural deafness, short stature, femoral epiphyseal dysplasia, umbilical and inguinal hernias and developmental delay (growth retardation and mild intellectual deficit). It has been described in two brothers born to consanguineous parents. They also have dysmorphic features (triangular face, pointed chin) and bilateral obstruction of lacrimal ducts. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
short stature syndrome, brussels type	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature presenting in the neonatal period, associated with osteochondrodysplastic lesions and facial dysmorphism. It has been described in two members from the same family.
ectodermal dysplasia with natal teeth, turnpenny type	A rare disorder with manifestation of hypo or oligodontia and acanthosis nigricans. It has been described in four generations of one family. Onset generally occurs during adolescence. Some patients are born with multiple teeth. Hair anomalies (sparse body and scalp hair) also reported. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
dass	An exceedingly rare form of brachyolmia with characteristics of mild platyspondyly, broad ilia, elongated femoral necks with coxa valga, scoliosis, and short trunked short stature associated with amelogenesis imperfecta of both primary and permanent dentition.
palmoplantar keratoderma with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy and woolly hair	A recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy and a cutaneous phenotype with manifestation of peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma. The disease was first described in families originating from the Greek island of Naxos. Woolly hair appears from birth, palmoplantar keratoderma develops during the first year of life and cardiomyopathy is clinically manifested by adolescence with 100% penetrance. Symptoms of right heart failure appear during the end stages of the disease.
keratosis palmoplantaris with arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy	A recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy and a cutaneous phenotype with manifestation of peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma. The disease was first described in families originating from the Greek island of Naxos. Woolly hair appears from birth, palmoplantar keratoderma develops during the first year of life and cardiomyopathy is clinically manifested by adolescence with 100% penetrance. Symptoms of right heart failure appear during the end stages of the disease.
syndromic microphthalmia type 9	A rare clinical entity including as main characteristics anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia, and pulmonary hypoplasia or aplasia. Only five cases have been reported so far, two of who were siblings. In the three nonfamilial cases, unilateral pulmonary agenesis and microphthalmia were associated with diaphragmatic hernia and pulmonary vessel agenesis. It has been suggested that two different entities can be distinguished: on one hand, the association of anophthalmia-pulmonary hypoplasia with/without anomalies of the face, heart, spleen and uterus, which may be due to a putative autosomal recessive gene with pleiotropic effects; on the other hand, a sporadic association including pulmonary hypoplasia, anophthalmia, unilateral diaphragmatic defect and agenesis of the pulmonary trunk, which may represent the expression of a developmental field defect. There is evidence that syndromic microphthalmia- is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the STRA6 gene on chromosome 15q24.
spear syndrome	A rare clinical entity including as main characteristics anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia, and pulmonary hypoplasia or aplasia. Only five cases have been reported so far, two of who were siblings. In the three nonfamilial cases, unilateral pulmonary agenesis and microphthalmia were associated with diaphragmatic hernia and pulmonary vessel agenesis. It has been suggested that two different entities can be distinguished: on one hand, the association of anophthalmia-pulmonary hypoplasia with/without anomalies of the face, heart, spleen and uterus, which may be due to a putative autosomal recessive gene with pleiotropic effects; on the other hand, a sporadic association including pulmonary hypoplasia, anophthalmia, unilateral diaphragmatic defect and agenesis of the pulmonary trunk, which may represent the expression of a developmental field defect. There is evidence that syndromic microphthalmia- is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the STRA6 gene on chromosome 15q24.
bindewald ulmer muller syndrome	A rare disorder characterized by tetralogy of Fallot, minor facial anomalies, and severe intellectual deficiency and growth delay. Dysmorphic features include large, protruding, abnormally modeled ears and broad nasal root. Microcephaly and syndactyly of second and third toes have also been recorded. All patients have severe intellectual deficiency. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
infundibulopelvic dysgenesis	A rare genetic renal malformation syndrome with characteristics of variable degrees of malformation in the pelvicalyceal system (including unilateral or bilateral calyceal dilatation, infundibular stenosis, hypoplasia or stenosis of the renal pelvis) which lead to multicystic kidney. Clinically it exhibits abdominal, lumbar or flank pain, recurrent urinary tract infections, hypertension, proteinuria and often progresses to renal insufficiency. Calyceal dilatation and hydronephrosis are frequently seen on imaging.
marden walker like syndrome without psychomotor retardation	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, arachnodactyly, joint contractures and dysmorphic features. Ten cases from seven families have been reported in the literature. The dysmorphic features include narrow nose with hypoplastic alae nasi, hypoplastic maxilla, everted lower lip, blepharophimosis, large ears and high-arched or cleft palate. The affected patients can have learning disabilities. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
fryns microphthalmia syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia, cleft lip/palate, facial cleft and sacral neural tube defects, along with various additional anomalies including congenital glaucoma, iris coloboma, primary hyperplastic vitreous, hypertelorism, low-set ears, clinodactyly, choanal atresia/stenosis, dysgenesis of sacrum, tethering of spinal cord, syringomyelia, hypoplasia of corpus callosum, cerebral ventriculomegaly and endocrine abnormalities. An autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested.
velofacioskeletal syndrome (disorder)	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with short stature, facial dysmorphism (elongated face, hypertelorism, broad and high nasal bridge, mild epicanthus, posteriorly angulated ears, narrow and high-arched palate), skeletal anomalies (mesomelic brachymelia, short broad hands, prominent finger pads, short stubby thumbs, hyperextensibility of small joints, small feet), hypernasality and normal intelligence. Delayed bone age has also been reported.
velofacioskeletal syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with short stature, facial dysmorphism (elongated face, hypertelorism, broad and high nasal bridge, mild epicanthus, posteriorly angulated ears, narrow and high-arched palate), skeletal anomalies (mesomelic brachymelia, short broad hands, prominent finger pads, short stubby thumbs, hyperextensibility of small joints, small feet), hypernasality and normal intelligence. Delayed bone age has also been reported.
otofaciocervical syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of distinct facial features (long triangular face, broad forehead, narrow nose and mandible, high arched palate), prominent, dysmorphic ears (low-set and cup-shaped with large conchae and hypoplastic tragus, antitragus and lobe), long neck, preauricular and/or branchial fistulas and/or cysts, hypoplastic cervical muscles with sloping shoulders and clavicles, winged, low, and laterally-set scapulae, hearing impairment and mild intellectual deficit. Vertebral defects and short stature may also be associated.
otofaciocervical syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of distinct facial features (long triangular face, broad forehead, narrow nose and mandible, high arched palate), prominent, dysmorphic ears (low-set and cup-shaped with large conchae and hypoplastic tragus, antitragus and lobe), long neck, preauricular and/or branchial fistulas and/or cysts, hypoplastic cervical muscles with sloping shoulders and clavicles, winged, low, and laterally-set scapulae, hearing impairment and mild intellectual deficit. Vertebral defects and short stature may also be associated.
osteosarcoma, limb anomalies, erythroid macrocytosis syndrome	Syndrome characterised by the association of osteosarcoma, limb anomalies (clinodactyly with brachymesophalangia, bilateral radioulnar synostosis and absence of one digital ray of the foot) and red cell macrocytosis without anaemia. It has been described in three out of nine children from one family.
ofd10	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
orofaciodigital syndrome x	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
figuera syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
oral-facial-digital syndrome, type x	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
oral-facial-digital syndrome with fibular aplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
ophthalmomandibulomelic dysplasia (disorder)	Complete blindness due to corneal opacities, difficult mastication due to temporomandibular fusion and anomalies of the arms. Micrognathia, shortening and bowing of the forearm, ulnar deviation and bowed radius, short fibula, genu valgum and coxa vara have been reported. Intelligence is normal. The causative gene has not yet been identified. Autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested.
ophthalmomandibulomelic dysplasia	Complete blindness due to corneal opacities, difficult mastication due to temporomandibular fusion and anomalies of the arms. Micrognathia, shortening and bowing of the forearm, ulnar deviation and bowed radius, short fibula, genu valgum and coxa vara have been reported. Intelligence is normal. The causative gene has not yet been identified. Autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested.
odontomatosis (multiple odontomas) with dysphagia	Odontoma-dysphagia syndrome is a malformation syndrome, with characteristics of odontomas and severe dysphagia. Less than ten cases have been reported so far. Three of the reported patients manifested multiple odontomas. Occasionally, cardiac, renal and hepatic involvement has been described. In several cases, autosomal dominant inheritance has been suspected. Currently, there are no genes associated with this condition.
opdm	A rare genetic neuromuscular disease with characteristics of progressive external ocular, facial and pharyngeal muscle weakness, leading to variable degrees of ptosis, ophthalmoparesis, facial muscle atrophy, dysarthria and dysphagia, as well as distal muscle weakness and atrophy of lower and upper extremities. Respiratory muscle involvement is common, but sensorineural hearing loss, asymmetrical extremity weakness and severe proximal weakness are rare.
brss	An autosomal dominant dysmorphic disorder with characteristics hypotelorism, blepharophimosis, facial asymmetry, small posteriorly angulated ears, a long prominent nose, a small mouth and an array of cleft palate abnormalities. Cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers and toes is a recurrent manifestation. Affected individuals often have a short stature and may present with a mild intellectual disability or learning difficulties. Hypospadias is frequently reported in males. Transmission is autosomal dominant with variable expressivity.
myotubular myopathy, autosomal dominant	An inherited neuromuscular disorder defined by numerous centrally placed nuclei on muscle biopsy and clinical features of a congenital myopathy. The exact prevalence remains unknown. Most commonly, the age of onset is in adolescence, although earlier presentations in infancy or childhood have been reported. Muscle weakness of variable severity is the major clinical manifestation. Mutations in the dynamin 2 (DNM2) gene on chromosome 19p13.2 are responsible.
muscular dystrophy, benign congenital	A usually autosomal dominant inherited movement disorder caused by mutations in the COL6A1, COL6A2, and COL6A3 genes. It is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and joint stiffness in the fingers, wrists, elbows, and ankles.
momo syndrome	A very rare genetic overgrowth/obesity syndrome with characteristics of macrocephaly, obesity, mental (intellectual) disability and ocular abnormalities. Other frequent clinical signs include macrosomia, downslanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, broad nasal root, high and broad forehead and delay in bone maturation, in association with normal thyroid function and karyotype.
pai syndrome	An idiopathic developmental disorder with characteristics of median cleft of the upper lip, midline polyps of the facial skin and nasal mucosa and pericallosal lipomas. Hypertelorism with ocular anomalies are also observed, generally with normal neuropsychological development. Presents at birth with a variable phenotype ranging from mild facial dysmorphism to more severe anomalies resembling frontonasal dysplasia. Normal neuropsychological development was reported in all but one case that presented with epileptic seizures. Sacral dimples may be observed at birth, and hypospadias has been reported in some male patients.
macules hereditary congenital hypopigmented and hyperpigmented	A neurocutaneous syndrome with characteristics of congenital hypomelanotic and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules. It has been described in individuals spanning three generations of an Indian family. Some of the patients also had retarded growth and intellectual deficit.
westerhof beemer cormane syndrome	A neurocutaneous syndrome with characteristics of congenital hypomelanotic and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules. It has been described in individuals spanning three generations of an Indian family. Some of the patients also had retarded growth and intellectual deficit.
ppkp1a	A very rare hereditary skin disease with manifestation of irregularly distributed epidermal hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. Reported in 35 families worldwide to date. The lesions usually start to develop in early adolescence but can also present later in life. Mutations in the AAGAB gene (15q22.33-q23) have recently been identified as one of the causes. Mutations in the COL14A1 gene (8q23) have also been identified as causal in some cases in Asia that seem to have a similar phenotype
ppk with deafness	A keratinization disorder characterized by focal or diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma. A patchy distribution is observed with accentuation on the thenar, hypothenar and the arches of the feet. The disease becomes apparent in infancy and is associated with sensorineural hearing loss that shows a variable age of onset. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner with incomplete penetrance. Caused by heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding connexin-26 (GJB2; 121011) on chromosome 13q12.
cerebral dysgenesis, neuropathy, ichthyosis, and palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome	A neurocutaneous syndrome with characteristics of severe developmental abnormalities of the nervous system and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis. It has been described so far in seven affected individuals (four boys and three girls) from two consanguineous families. Clinically, the patients display a unique constellation of clinical signs described with the acronym CEDNIK: CErebral dysgenesis, Neuropathy, Ichthyosis, and palmoplantar Keratoderma. It is caused by mutations in the SNAP29 gene (22q11.2) that encodes a SNARE protein involved in vesicle fusion. The disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive condition.
goldberg-shprintzen megacolon syndrome	A multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of Hirschprung megacolon and microcephaly, hypertelorism, submucous cleft palate, short stature and learning disability. It has been described in about 10 patients, boys and girls. Some of the reported cases also had iris coloboma, hypotonia, and ptosis. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and was found to be caused by mutations in KIAA1279 on chromosome 10q21.3-q22.1.
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with circinate migratory erythema (disorder)	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex with manifestation of belt-like areas of erythema with multiple vesicles and small blisters at the advancing edge of erythema. Prevalence is unknown but 2 families have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth. The lesions occur on the limbs and trunk and heal with brown pigmentation but no scarring. Extracutaneous involvement is absent. The disease is due to a specific mutation in the KRT5 (12q13.13) gene, encoding keratin 5. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
mednik syndrome	MEDNIK syndrome, previously known as Erythrokeratodermia Variabilis type 3 (EKV3), has characteristics of intellectual deficit, enteropathy, sensorineural hearing loss, peripheral neuropathy, lamellar and erythrodermic ichthyosis and keratodermia. The syndrome has been described in four families descending from limited number of ancestors in Quebec. The disease is due to a mutation in the AP1S1 gene encoding the small subunit sigma1A of the AP-1 complex. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
branchiogenic-deafness syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome, described in one family to date, with characteristics of branchial cysts or fistula, ear malformations, congenital hearing loss (conductive, sensorineural, and mixed), internal auditory canal hypoplasia, strabismus, trismus, abnormal fifth fingers, vitiliginous lesions, short stature and mild learning disability. Renal and urethral abnormalities are absent.
microcoria and congenital nephrotic syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation(s) in the LAMB2 gene, encoding laminin subunit beta-2. It is characterized by congenital nephrotic syndrome with diffuse mesangial sclerosis and distinct ocular abnormalities.
meacham syndrome (disorder)	A multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of congenital diaphragmatic abnormalities, genital defects and cardiac malformations. Less than 15 patients have been reported worldwide. Ambiguous or female external genitalia are present in individuals with 46,XY karyotype. The genital abnormalities are variable and may include a true double vagina or septate vagina, absent uterus, abnormal male gonads in the presence of normal external female genitalia or male pseudohermaphroditism with abnormal internal female genitalia. Complex cyanotic congenital heart defects, (hypoplastic right lungs, anomalous pulmonary venous return and abnormalities of the diaphragm) are frequent. One patient with rhabdomyomatous dysplasia of the lungs has been reported. Mutations in the WT1 gene have been identified in some patients with Meacham syndrome. All patients reported to date died in early childhood.
meacham winn culler syndrome	A multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of congenital diaphragmatic abnormalities, genital defects and cardiac malformations. Less than 15 patients have been reported worldwide. Ambiguous or female external genitalia are present in individuals with 46,XY karyotype. The genital abnormalities are variable and may include a true double vagina or septate vagina, absent uterus, abnormal male gonads in the presence of normal external female genitalia or male pseudohermaphroditism with abnormal internal female genitalia. Complex cyanotic congenital heart defects, (hypoplastic right lungs, anomalous pulmonary venous return and abnormalities of the diaphragm) are frequent. One patient with rhabdomyomatous dysplasia of the lungs has been reported. Mutations in the WT1 gene have been identified in some patients with Meacham syndrome. All patients reported to date died in early childhood.
ichthyosis congenita iv	A rare syndromic congenital ichthyosis with characteristics of premature birth in addition to thick caseous and desquamating epidermis, neonatal respiratory asphyxia and persistent eosinophilia. After the perinatal period, a spontaneous improvement in the health of affected patients is observed and skin features (vernix caseosa-like scale) evolve into a mild presentation of flat follicular hyperkeratosis with atopy. The disease is caused by mutation in the FATP4 (SLC27A4) gene.
burn-mckeown syndrome	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of bilateral choanal atresia associated with cranio-facial dysmorphism, that can be accompanied by hearing loss, unilateral cleft lip, preauricular tags, cardiac septal defects and anomalies of the kidneys. The features of this syndrome overlap considerably with those of the CHARGE syndrome.
hairy throat syndrome	Anterior cervical hypertrichosis (ACH) or 'hairy throat' refers to the presence of a tuft of terminal hair on the anterior neck, just above the laryngeal prominence. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20400390]
codas (cerebro-oculo-dento-auriculo-skeletal) syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the LONP1 gene. It is characterized by developmental delay, cerebral, ocular, dental, auricular, and skeletal abnormalities.
fryns macrocephaly	A rare syndrome with features of multiple congenital anomalies with macrocephaly (of post-natal onset), large anterior fontanelle, progressive complex spastic paraplegia, coarse facial features (broad and high forehead, deeply set eyes, short philtrum with thin upper lip, large mouth and prominent incisors), seizures, and intellectual deficit of varying severity. Inheritance appears to be autosomal recessive.
tuberous sclerosis-polycystic kidney disease contiguous gene syndrome	Disease with characteristics of early-onset severe polycystic kidney disease with various manifestations of tuberous sclerosis (multiple angiomyolipomas, lymphangioleiomyomatosis and periventricular calcifications of the central nervous system). A contiguous gene syndrome caused by a large deletion involving both the PKD1 and TSC2 genes (16p13.3). Transmission is autosomal dominant.
polycystic kidney disease, infantile severe, with tuberous sclerosis	Disease with characteristics of early-onset severe polycystic kidney disease with various manifestations of tuberous sclerosis (multiple angiomyolipomas, lymphangioleiomyomatosis and periventricular calcifications of the central nervous system). A contiguous gene syndrome caused by a large deletion involving both the PKD1 and TSC2 genes (16p13.3). Transmission is autosomal dominant.
richieri costa gorlin syndrome	A rare genetic bone developmental disorder with characteristics of short stature, orbital region and ocular abnormalities (e.g. asymmetric orbits, anophthalmia, down-slanted and S-shaped palpebral fissures, sparse eyebrows/eyelashes, abnormal eyelids, ectropion, symblepharon, corneal leukoma), abnormal nose (e.g. broad nasal root, bridge and tip, lateral deviation), malar hypoplasia, cleft lip/palate, and oblique facial clefts. Intellectual disability, microcephaly, micrognathia and limb anomalies (e.g. hemimelia, abnormal scapular girdle, brachydactyly, syndactyly, broad halluces) have also been reported.
autosomal recessive exfoliative ichthyosis (diagnosis)	An inherited non-syndromic congenital ichthyosis characterised by the infancy-onset of palmoplantar peeling of the skin (aggravated by exposure to water and by occlusion) associated with dry, scaly skin over most of the body. Pruritus and hypohidrosis may also be associated. Well-demarcated areas of denuded skin appear in moist and traumatised regions and skin biopsies reveal reduced cell-cell adhesion in the basal and suprabasal layers, prominent intercellular oedema, numerous aggregates of keratin filaments in basal keratinocytes, attenuated cornified cell envelopes, and epidermal barrier impairment.
pterygium colli with intellectual disability and digital anomaly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of pterygium colli, digital anomalies and craniofacial abnormalities. Digital anomalies include abnormal small thumbs, widened interphalangeal joints, and broad terminal phalanges. Craniofacial abnormalities include brachycephaly, epicanthic folds, angulated eyebrows, upward slanting of the palpebral fissures, ptosis, hypertelorism, prominent low-set and posteriorly rotated ears. It has been described in a woman and her son, but the manifestations were much less severe in the mother. The son also had intellectual deficit. The inheritance is either X-linked dominant or autosomal dominant.
chondrodysplasia pseudohermaphroditism syndrome	An extremely rare disorder of sex development, reported in only two siblings to date. The syndrome has clinical features of 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis in association with severe dwarfism with generalized chondrodysplasia (bell-shaped thorax, micromelia, brachydactyly). Other reported features in the live sibling included eye anomalies, dysmorphic features, muscular hypoplasia, mild intellectual deficiency and severe microcephaly with cerebellar vermis hypoplasia. An autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested.
scott bryant graham syndrome	Syndrome with manifestations of syndactyly of the fingers and toes, characteristic facies (startled facial expression with a small pointed nose, micrognathia, long dark eyelashes and prominent eyebrows) and intellectual deficit. Less than 10 cases have been described in the literature so far. Abnormal dermatoglyphic patterns, growth retardation and brachycephaly have also been reported. Transmission appears to be autosomal or X-linked recessive.
skeletal abnormalities, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, retardation, and facial abnormalities	Syndrome with the association of skeletal abnormalities, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, psychomotor retardation and facial abnormalities. So far, it has been described in two males (maternal first cousins). The mode of inheritance was suggested to be X-linked recessive.
tarp syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of Robin sequence (micrognathia, glossoptosis, cleft palate), atrial septal defect, persistence of the left superior vena cava and talipes equinovarus. The phenotype is variable, some patients present with further dysmorphic characteristics (e.g. hypertelorism, ear abnormalities) while others do not have any key findings. Additional features, such as syndactyly, polydactyly, or brain anomalies (e.g. cerebellar hypoplasia), have also been reported. The syndrome is almost invariably lethal with affected males either dying prenatally or living just a few months. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by mutation in the RBM10 gene on chromosome Xp11.23.
meax	This myopathy is a childhood-onset X-linked myopathy with characteristics of slow progression of muscle weakness and unique histopathological findings. It has been described in about fifteen families The first manifestations appear typically in children around 5-10 years of age and include difficulty climbing stairs and running. Transmission is X-linked recessive; female carriers are asymptomatic or only mildly affected. The Xq28 locus has been associated with the disease.
fused incisors	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
single central maxillary incisor	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
ichthyosis--cheek--eyebrow syndrome	This syndrome has features of ichthyosis, prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows. It has been described in several individuals from four generations of one family. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
sidransky feinstein goodman syndrome	This syndrome has features of ichthyosis, prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows. It has been described in several individuals from four generations of one family. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
larynx; fissure, congenital	A rare congenital abnormality in the laryngo-tracheal wall. It results from the incomplete development of the tracheoesophageal septum. Signs and symptoms include coughing, cyanosis, repeated pulmonary infections, and failure to gain weight.
king-denborough syndrome	A rare genetic non-dystrophic myopathy with characteristics of the triad of congenital myopathy, dysmorphic features and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. Patients present with a wide phenotypic range, including delayed motor development, muscle weakness and fatigability, ptosis and myopathic facies (with or without creatine kinase elevations), skeletal abnormalities (short stature, scoliosis, kyphosis, lumbar lordosis and pectus carinatum/excavatum), mild dysmorphic facial features (hypertelorism, down-slanting palpebral fissures, epicanthic folds, low set ears, micrognathia), webbing of the neck, cryptorchidism, and a susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia and/or rhabdomyolysis due to intensive physical strain, viral infection or statin use.
hemifacial hyperplasia with strabismus	A malformation syndrome involving the abnormal growth of the facial skeleton as well as its soft tissue structure and organs. The syndrome has characteristics of mild facial asymmetry with unaffected neurocranium and eyeballs, along with esotropia, amblyopia and/or convergent strabismus and occasionally submucous cleft palate. Transmission is autosomal dominant. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1979.
heart hand syndrome spanish type	A very rare type of heart-hand syndrome described in three members of a Spanish family to date. The syndrome has characteristics of cardiac conduction defect (sick sinus, bundle-branch block) and brachydactyly, resembling brachydactyly type C of the hands, affecting principally the middle phalanges in conjunction with an extra ossicle on the proximal phalanx of both index fingers. Feet abnormalities are more subtle.
goiter, multinodular, cystic renal disease, and digital anomalies	A very rare syndrome characterised by the association of multinodular goitre, cystic renal disease and digital anomalies. It has been described in two siblings and one unrelated child. The two siblings had digitalised thumbs and preaxial polydactyly, the third child had normal thumbs and postaxial polydactyly. Goitre and/or digitalised thumbs and/or polydactyly were present in other members of families. This syndrome seems to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with variable expression and incomplete penetrance.
glomuvenous malformations	Hereditary vascular malformations featuring the presence of small, multifocal bluish-purple venous lesions involving the skin. May be present at birth, and slowly expand during childhood. New small lesions appear with time. Often painful on palpation and cannot be completely emptied by compression. They are usually multifocal and are located mainly on the extremities, involving the skin and subcutis. Caused by mutations in the gene encoding glomulin and inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
ectodermal dysplasia, hypohidrotic, with acanthosis nigricans	The association of ectodermal dysplasia (hypotrichosis and hypohidrosis) with acanthosis nigricans. So far, only eight cases have been described in the literature. Other clinical features may include palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, nail dystrophy, intellectual deficit and hypodontia. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
8q22.1 microdeletion syndrome	A rare microdeletion syndrome associated with a distinct facial appearance. It has been reported in four unrelated patients. A mask-like facial appearance is the most characteristic feature with blepharophimosis, tight appearing glistening facial skin, flat and broad nose, dysplastic ears and unusual scalp hair pattern. Camptodactyly, joint contractures, unusual dentition and mild developmental delay can be observed. Cryptorchidism in boys and a happy disposition are constant.
craniolenticulosutural dysplasia	Syndrome that is characterised by the specific association of large and late-closing fontanelles, hypertelorism, early-onset cataract and mild generalised skeletal dysplasia. Patients have abnormal hair, frontal bossing, hyperpigmentation with capillary haemangioma of the forehead, macrocephaly, significant hypertelorism, and a broad and prominent nose. In addition patients have Y-shaped sutural cataracts. All affected individuals have proportionate short stature but intellectual development is normal. The syndrome maps to chromosome 14q13-q21 and causative mutations have been identified in the SEC23A gene.
noonan syndrome-like disorder with loose anagen hair (disorder)	A Noonan-related syndrome with characteristics of facial anomalies suggestive of Noonan syndrome, a distinctive hair anomaly described as loose anagen hair syndrome, frequent congenital heart defects, distinctive skin features with darkly pigmented skin, keratosis pilaris, eczema or occasional neonatal ichthyosis and short stature, often associated with a growth hormone deficiency and psychomotor delay. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by heterozygous mutation in the SHOC2 gene on chromosome 10q25.
tosti syndrome	A Noonan-related syndrome with characteristics of facial anomalies suggestive of Noonan syndrome, a distinctive hair anomaly described as loose anagen hair syndrome, frequent congenital heart defects, distinctive skin features with darkly pigmented skin, keratosis pilaris, eczema or occasional neonatal ichthyosis and short stature, often associated with a growth hormone deficiency and psychomotor delay. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by heterozygous mutation in the SHOC2 gene on chromosome 10q25.
hopp syndrome	An extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of hypotrichosis universalis with mild to severe scarring alopecia, acro-osteolysis, onychogryphosis, thin and tapered fingertips, periodontitis and caries leading to premature teeth loss, linear or reticular palmoplantar keratoderma and erythematous, scaling, psoriasis-like skin lesions on arms and legs. Lingua plicata and ventricular tachycardia have also been observed.
hypotrichosis, osteolysis, periodontitis, palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of hypotrichosis universalis with mild to severe scarring alopecia, acro-osteolysis, onychogryphosis, thin and tapered fingertips, periodontitis and caries leading to premature teeth loss, linear or reticular palmoplantar keratoderma and erythematous, scaling, psoriasis-like skin lesions on arms and legs. Lingua plicata and ventricular tachycardia have also been observed.
chacs	An extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of premature loss of curly, brittle, dry hair, premature loss of teeth due to caries, nail dystrophy with thickening of the finger and toe-nails, acral keratoderma and hypohidrosis. Additionally, sparse eyebrows and eyelashes, receding frontal hairline and flattened malar region are associated. The severity of features appears to increase with age.
neonatal sclerosing cholangitis, ichthyosis, hypotrichosis syndrome	A very rare complex ichthyosis syndrome with characteristics of scalp hypotrichosis, scarring alopecia, ichthyosis and sclerosing cholangitis. The ichthyosis presents with diffuse white scales sparing the skin folds and is accompanied by scalp hypotrichosis, cicatricial alopecia, and sparse eyelashes/eyebrows. Additional manifestations may include oligodontia, hypodontia and enamel dysplasia. All patients present with neonatal sclerosing cholangitis with jaundice and pruritus, hepatomegaly and biochemical cholestasis. Caused by a mutation in the CLDN1 gene on chromosome 3q28 coding for the tight junction protein claudin-1. Autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
annular epidermolytic ichthyosis	A rare clinical variant of epidermolytic ichthyosis, with manifestations of blistering phenotype at birth and the development from early infancy of annular polycyclic erythematous scales on the trunk and extremities. It has been reported in less than 10 families. The disease is caused by mutations in the KRT1 (12q11-q13) and KRT10 (17q21-q23) genes, encoding keratins 1 and 10 respectively. These mutations impair keratin filament formation and weaken the structural stability of the keratinocyte cytoskeleton. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
otopalatodigital syndrome (diagnosis)	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
otopalatodigital syndrome type 2	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
catel manzke syndrome (disorder)	A rare bone disease with anomaly of both index fingers (accessory ossicle at the metacarpophalangeal joint with resulting ulnar deviation) and typically in association with Pierre Robin sequence comprising micrognathia, cleft palate and glossoptosis. In 80% of cases, the digital abnormality is associated with Pierre Robin sequence. Additional frequently reported congenital malformations include cardiac defects such as ventricular septal defect and interatrial communication. Homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations in TGDS (13q32.1) have been implicated as causal in this syndrome. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Genetic counseling is recommended.
x-linked mandibulofacial dysostosis (disorder)	An extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that has characteristics of microcephaly, malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures, highly arched palate, apparently low-set and protruding ears, micrognathia, short stature, bilateral hearing loss, and learning disability. Occasionally, additional features have been observed such as bilateral cryptorchidism, cardiac valvular lesions, body asymmetry, and pectus excavatum.
amc, distal, x-linked	A rare form of spinal muscular atrophy with characteristics of the neonatal onset of severe hypotonia, areflexia, profound weakness, multiple congenital contractures, facial dysmorphic features (myopathic face with open, tent-shaped mouth), cryptorchidism, and mild skeletal abnormalities (kyphosis, scoliosis), that is often preceded by polyhydramnios and reduced fetal movements in utero and followed by bone fractures shortly after birth. Patients have a limited life span, often succumbing to the disease within 2 years, as muscle weakness is progressive and chest muscle involvement eventually leads to ventilatory insufficiency and respiratory failure.
holoprosencephaly, ectrodactyly, cleft lip, cleft palate syndrome (disorder)	A rare disease with characteristics of holoprosencephaly and ectrodactyly. Holoprosencephaly occurs during early fetal development with failure of the brain to divide into the left and right hemisphere. In the most severe forms of holoprosencephaly, the brain does not divide at all. These affected individuals have cyclopia and proboscis located above the eye. Most babies with severe holoprosencephaly die before birth or soon after. Other manifestations include malfunctioning pituitary, seizures, feeding difficulties, developmental delay and problems regulating body temperature and sleep pattern. Some affected individuals have distinctive facial features, including hypertelorism, hypotelorism, cleft lip, cleft palate. Can be caused by mutations in the FGFR1 gene.
cbps	A type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that affects both sides of the brain. [COST:neuromig, PMID:20301504]
cabezas syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, muscle wasting, short stature, a prominent lower lip, small testes, kyphosis and joint hyperextensibility. An abnormal gait, tremor, decreased fine motor coordination and impaired speech are also present. The syndrome has been described in six boys from three generations of the same family. Transmission is X-linked and the causative gene has been localised to the q24-q25 region of the X chromosome.
ectodermal dysplasia, anhidrotic, with immune deficiency	A rare disorder caused by mutations either in the IKBKG gene resulting in an X-linked recessive inheritance pattern or in the NFKBIA gene resulting in an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. It is characterized by abnormal development of ectodermal tissues including the skin, hair, teeth, and sweat glands and immune system deficiency. It results in dry and wrinkled skin, sparse scalp and body hair, missing teeth, and reduced ability to sweat. Patients have abnormally low levels of antibodies causing inability to fight infections.
hoyeraal-hreidarsson syndrome	A very rare X-linked recessive disorder considered to be a severe variant of dyskeratosis congenita, characterised by intrauterine growth retardation, microcephaly, cerebellar hypoplasia, progressive combined immune deficiency and aplastic anaemia.
lissencephaly, x-linked, with ambiguous genitalia	A severe neurological disorder that only manifests in genotypic males and includes lissencephaly with posterior-to-anterior gradient and only moderate increase in thickness of the cortex, absent corpus callosum, neonatal-onset severe epilepsy, hypothalamic dysfunction including defective temperature regulation, and ambiguous genitalia with micropenis and cryptorchidism.
simpson-golabi-behmel syndrome, type 2	An extremely rare and severe early-lethal form of Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome. The disease is an overgrowth-multiple anomalies syndrome with characteristics of hydrops fetalis, macrocephaly, facial dysmorphism, short neck, redundant skin, skeletal defects (involving upper and lower limbs), hypoplastic nails, gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies, hypotonia and neurologic impairment. Severe intellectual disability, obesity and infections (pneumonia, sepsis) have been reported.
amme complex	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of Alport syndrome, midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit and elliptocytosis. It has been described in two families. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked trait is caused by a contiguous gene deletion in Xq22.3 involving several genes including COL4A5, FACL4 and AMMECR1.
mrxsbrk	MEHMO syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, epilepsy, microcephaly, hypogenitalism and obesity. Growth delay and diabetes are also present. To date, it has been described in seven boys, all of who died within the first two years of life. The causative gene has been located to the 21.1-22.13p region of the X chromosome and the syndrome appears to result from mitochondrial dysfunction.
multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with cloverleaf skull	This syndrome has characteristics of cloverleaf skull, limb anomalies, facial dysmorphism and multiple congenital anomalies. It has been described in three siblings from one family. Dysmorphic features include protruding forehead, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, wide anterior fontanelle and short philtrum, down turning mouth, micrognathia and low-set ears. The limbs show rhizomelic shortening. Additional malformations are not constant: omphalocele, bilateral microphthalmia, cataract, narrow chest, ambiguous genitalia, cardiac ventricular septal defect and agenesis of the corpus callosum. The condition seems to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor.
dna (deoxyribonucleic acid) ligase iv deficiency	A very rare genetic disorder caused by mutation in the LIG4 gene. It is characterized by unusual facial features, microcephaly, growth and developmental delay, severe immunodeficiency, and skin abnormalities.
chime syndrome	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome to date described in 8 cases. The syndrome has characteristics of early-onset migratory ichthyosiform dermatosis, bilateral ocular coloboma, conductive hearing loss, seizures, intellectual disability and characteristic facial features. Ears are low-set with thick over-folded helices. Teeth are widely spaced and square in shape. Less constant findings are cleft palate or a less severe equivalent, cardiac defects, pectus excavatum and supernumerary nipples. Caused by mutations in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol gene PIGL located to 17p12-p11.2. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
coloboma, congenital heart disease, ichthyosiform dermatosis, mental retardation, and ear anomalies syndrome	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome to date described in 8 cases. The syndrome has characteristics of early-onset migratory ichthyosiform dermatosis, bilateral ocular coloboma, conductive hearing loss, seizures, intellectual disability and characteristic facial features. Ears are low-set with thick over-folded helices. Teeth are widely spaced and square in shape. Less constant findings are cleft palate or a less severe equivalent, cardiac defects, pectus excavatum and supernumerary nipples. Caused by mutations in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol gene PIGL located to 17p12-p11.2. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
intellectual disability wolff type (diagnosis)	A rare intellectual disability syndrome with manifestations of severe intellectual disability, characteristic facial features (low anterior hairline, upward slanting palpebral fissures, ocular hypertelorism, broad, bulbous nose, large ears with helix incompletely developed, thick lips, and micrognathia) and additional anomalies including peripheral joint contractures, delayed skeletal maturation, bilateral cleft lip and palate, strabismus, terminal hypoplasia of fingers, hypospadias, and bilateral inguinal hernias.
white forelock with malformations syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of poliosis, distinct facial features (epicanthal folds, hypertelorism, posterior rotation of ears, prominent philtrum, high-arched palate) and congenital anomalies/malformations of the eye (blue sclera), cardiopulmonary (atrial septal defect, prominent thoracic and abdominal veins) and skeletal (clinodactyly, syndactyly of the fingers and second and third toes) systems. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1980.
white forelock with malformations	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of poliosis, distinct facial features (epicanthal folds, hypertelorism, posterior rotation of ears, prominent philtrum, high-arched palate) and congenital anomalies/malformations of the eye (blue sclera), cardiopulmonary (atrial septal defect, prominent thoracic and abdominal veins) and skeletal (clinodactyly, syndactyly of the fingers and second and third toes) systems. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1980.
white forelock with malformations syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of poliosis, distinct facial features (epicanthal folds, hypertelorism, posterior rotation of ears, prominent philtrum, high-arched palate) and congenital anomalies/malformations of the eye (blue sclera), cardiopulmonary (atrial septal defect, prominent thoracic and abdominal veins) and skeletal (clinodactyly, syndactyly of the fingers and second and third toes) systems. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1980.
waardenburg syndrome type iv (diagnosis)	A rare, autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive syndrome caused by mutations in the SOX10, EDN3, or EDNRB genes. It is characterized by pigmentary abnormalities of the hair, skin, and eyes, congenital sensorineural hearing loss, and Hirschsprung disease.
intestinal pseudoobstruction with external ophthalmoplegia	An extremely rare autosomal recessively inherited neuromuscular disease characterized by ocular manifestations such as ptosis and diplopia followed by chronic diarrhea, malnutrition and intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
limb-pelvis hypoplasia-aplasia syndrome	Skeletal malformations affecting the ulnae, pelvic bones, fibulae and femora. Only a few cases have been described. Patients have intercalary limb deficiencies (phocomelia sometimes combined with polydactyly, oligodactyly or ectrodactyly), absent or hypoplastic pelvic bones (including sacral agenesis or hypoplasia) and skull defects. Additional features may include thoracic dystrophy, unusual facies (dysplastic and large ears, and a high and narrow palate), and genital malformations.Growth and mental development are normal.
congenital trichomegaly	This syndrome has characteristics of growth retardation, alopecia, abnormally long eyelashes and retinitis pigmentosa. Moderate intellectual deficit was also present in the majority of cases. To date, 11 cases have been reported. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
thymic, renal, anal, lung dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, renal dysgenesis and a unilobed or absent thymus. It has been described in three girls born to a nonconsanguineous couple.
cmn syndrome	Syndrome with the association of spondylocostal dysostosis with anal and genitourinary malformations (anal atresia and agenesis of external and internal genitalia). To date, only four cases have been described in the literature.
robin sequence with cleft mandible and limb anomalies syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of short stature, Robin sequence, cleft mandible, pre/postaxial hand anomalies (including hypoplastic thumbs) and clubfoot. It has been described in 14 Brazilian families and in one unrelated French patient. Prominent low set ears and highly arched palate was also observed. Transmission is autosomal recessive. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the EIF4A3 gene on chromosome 17q25.
kno	Knobloch syndrome is defined by vitreoretinal and macular degeneration, and occipital encephalocele. The disease has characteristics of early-onset severe myopia (usually becoming apparent in the first year of life), vitreoretinal degeneration with retinal detachment, macular abnormalities, and midline encephalocele (mainly in the occipital region). The syndrome is clinically and genetically heterogeneous with three forms, KNO1, KNO2 and KNO3, being defined. KNO1 is caused by inactivating mutations in the collagen XVIII/endostatin gene (COL18A1) mapped to 21q22.3. The KNO2 form was defined when linkage to the KNO1 locus was excluded in a family reported from New Zealand. Recently, a novel type of KS (KNO3) was mapped to chromosome 17q11.2. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
knobloch syndrome	Knobloch syndrome is defined by vitreoretinal and macular degeneration, and occipital encephalocele. The disease has characteristics of early-onset severe myopia (usually becoming apparent in the first year of life), vitreoretinal degeneration with retinal detachment, macular abnormalities, and midline encephalocele (mainly in the occipital region). The syndrome is clinically and genetically heterogeneous with three forms, KNO1, KNO2 and KNO3, being defined. KNO1 is caused by inactivating mutations in the collagen XVIII/endostatin gene (COL18A1) mapped to 21q22.3. The KNO2 form was defined when linkage to the KNO1 locus was excluded in a family reported from New Zealand. Recently, a novel type of KS (KNO3) was mapped to chromosome 17q11.2. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
renal dysplasia with limb defect syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of renal dysplasia, growth retardation, phocomelia or mesomelia, radiohumeral fusion, rib abnormalities, anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter-like facies. The syndrome has been described in three infants, all of whom died shortly after birth from respiratory distress resulting from pulmonary hypoplasia and oligohydramnios caused by renal dysplasia. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
renal dysplasia-limb defects syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of renal dysplasia, growth retardation, phocomelia or mesomelia, radiohumeral fusion, rib abnormalities, anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter-like facies. The syndrome has been described in three infants, all of whom died shortly after birth from respiratory distress resulting from pulmonary hypoplasia and oligohydramnios caused by renal dysplasia. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
pyknoachondrogenesis	Pyknoachondrogenesis is a lethal skeletal osteochondrodysplasia characterised by severe generalised osteosclerosis. The disease is very rare and only five cases (four males and one female) have been reported in the literature so far. Pyknoachondrogenesis may be detected prenatally due to the extreme shortening of the limbs and hydrops fetalis, or is recognised at birth. The main clinical manifestations include a large head, palpebral oedema, a flat nose, low-set ears, a short neck, a short and wide trunk, a prominent abdomen, and severe micromelic dwarfism. Aetiology remains unknown. Pyknoachondrogenesis has a lethal outcome, either prenatally or during the early neonatal period.
pulmonary cystic lymphangiectasis	A congenital abnormality in the lungs characterized by the presence of dilated lymphatic vessels in the interlobar, perivascular, and peribronchial areas of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear at birth and include tachypnea, cyanosis, and respiratory distress.
lymphangiomatosis, pulmonary	A congenital abnormality in the lungs characterized by the presence of dilated lymphatic vessels in the interlobar, perivascular, and peribronchial areas of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear at birth and include tachypnea, cyanosis, and respiratory distress.
holoprosencephaly-polydactyly syndrome	A rare syndrome likely inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It is characterized by holoprosencephaly, polydactyly, phenotypic features reminiscent of trisomy 13, and normal karyotype.
pseudopapilledema, ocular hypotelorism, blepharophimosis, and hand anomalies	A very rare disorder associating pseudopapilledema (optic disc swelling not secondary to increased intracranial pressure) mixed hearing loss, facial dysmorphism and limb extremity anomalies. Only 4 cases have been reported in the literature from 3 inbred sibships. The affected patients have no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
acro-oto-ocular syndrome	A very rare disorder associating pseudopapilledema (optic disc swelling not secondary to increased intracranial pressure) mixed hearing loss, facial dysmorphism and limb extremity anomalies. Only 4 cases have been reported in the literature from 3 inbred sibships. The affected patients have no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
multiple pterygium syndrome, aslan type	A rare inherited popliteal pterygium syndrome with characteristics of severe popliteal webbing, microcephaly, a typical face with short palpebral fissures, ankyloblepharon, hypoplastic nose, filiform bands between the jaws and facial clefts, genital abnormalities and additional ectodermal anomalies (absent hair, eyebrows, lashes, nails). It is often fatal in the neonatal period but survival into childhood has been reported.
polysyndactyly and cardiac malformation syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of polysyndactyly, hexadactyly (duplication of the first toe) and complex cardiac malformation (including atrial and ventricular septal defect, single ventricle, aortic dextroposition, or dilation of the right heart). It has been described in six patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations were present in some patients (i.e. facial dysmorphism, hepatic cysts).
powell chandra saal syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the association of limb pterygia, heart anomalies, autosomal recessive inheritance, vertebral defects, ear anomalies and radial defects. It has been described in two siblings. One of the siblings also had a myelomeningocele. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary with probable autosomal recessive inheritance.
short stature, unique facies, enamel hypoplasia, progressive joint stiffness, high-pitched voice syndrome (disorder)	A very rare dysmorphic syndrome described in two siblings. The syndrome has characteristics of short stature, unique facies, enamel hypoplasia, progressive joint stiffness, high-pitched voice, cup-shaped ears and narrow palpebral fissures with epicanthal folds and intellectual deficit.
pelvic shoulder dysplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of pelviscapular dysplasia with epiphyseal abnormalities, congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism. The facial dysmorphism has manifestations of frontal bossing, hypertelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, deep-set eyes, strabismus, low-set posteriorly rotated and malformed ears, dysplasia of conchae, a small chin, a short neck with redundant skin folds, and a low hairline. Intelligence may vary from normal to moderately impaired. Radiographic features comprise aplasia of the body of the scapula, hypoplasia of the iliac bone, humeroradial synostosis, dislocation of the femoral heads, and moderate brachydactyly. Mutations in the TBX15 gene have been identified as potentially causative. Pelviscapular dysplasia is phenotypically similar to pelvis-shoulder dysplasia.
rns	A rare disorder defined by generalised osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation, characteristic facial dysmorphism, brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications, and neonatal lethal course. Mutations in the FAM20C gene have a causative role in lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
kaler garrity stern syndrome	A rare syndrome described in two sisters of Mennonite descent, with characteristics of sparse hair, osteopenia, intellectual disability, minor facial abnormalities, joint laxity and hypotonia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
omphalocele-cleft palate syndrome, lethal	Syndrome with the association of omphalocele and cleft palate. It has been described in three daughters of normal unrelated parents. They were all diagnosed at birth. This syndrome is likely to be inherited as an autosomal recessive condition.
cecatto de lima pinheiro syndrome	This disease has characteristics of retinitis pigmentosa, trichodysplasia, dental anomalies, and onychodysplasia. It has been described in two siblings (brother and sister) born to first cousin parents. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
opc dwarfism	The association of four anomalies: intellectual deficit, microcephaly, palate anomalies and ocular abnormalities. It has been described in five patients (three boys and two girls). The clinical manifestations are evident from birth. The palate anomaly is usually cleft palate. In the majority of cases, postnatal growth is marked by statural and ponderal retardation. Microcephaly is present in all patients.Persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous was present in all cases reported so far. Facial dysmorphology has characteristics of full cheeks, a bulbous nasal tip and long ears with thickened helices. Hands and feet are small. Anomalies of the external genitalia were reported in some of the male patients, with two of the boys displaying cryptorchidism. Skeletal anomalies include pectus excavatum, joint hyperlaxity and kyphoscoliosis. Intellectual deficit (moderate to severe) is a constant feature. So far, neither a causative gene nor locus has been identified.
native american myopathy	A neuromuscular disorder characterised by weakness, arthrogryposis, kyphoscoliosis, short stature, cleft palate, ptosis and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia during anaesthesia. Reported exclusively in Native American Indians (Lumbee Indian population of North Carolina). Within this population, the prevalence is estimated at approximately 1:5,000. The locus has been localised to 12q13.13-14.1. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
nathalie syndrome	Nathalie syndrome has characteristics of deafness, cataract, muscular atrophy, skeletal abnormalities, growth retardation, underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics and electrocardiographic abnormalities. It has been described in a Dutch family: in three sisters (one named Nathalie) and their brother.
nasodigitoacoustic syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, broad and high nasal bridge, depressed nasal ridge, short columella, underdeveloped maxilla, and prominent cupid-bow upper lip vermillion), mild to severe congenital sensorineural hearing loss, and skeletal abnormalities consisting of brachytelephalangy and broad thumbs and halluces with large, rounded epiphyses. Additional manifestations that have been reported include pulmonary valve stenosis, voice hoarseness and renal agenesis.
spinocerebellar ataxia 34	Disease with characteristics of papulosquamous, ichthyosiform plaques on the limbs appearing shortly after birth and later manifestations including progressive ataxia, dysarthria, nystagmus and decreased reflexes. Reported in 25 members of one French-Canadian family to date. Due to a mutation in the ELOVL4 gene (6q14).
epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica, dominant neonatal form	A rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa characterised by generalised blistering at birth that usually regresses within the first 6 to 24 months of life. Less than 30 cases have been reported to date. The disease usually manifests at birth. Skin blisters generally affect the whole body. Blisters can also affect the oral cavity. Disease activity usually ceases within the first 6 to 24 months of life. However, nail dystrophy and some degree of skin fragility can persist in adulthood. Caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). Mutations in this gene lead to reduced amounts or an alteration in function of collagen VII. The condition is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, but can also rarely be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
ectodermal dysplasia trichoodontoonychial type (diagnosis)	A form of ectodermal dysplasia with hair, teeth and nail involvement. The disease has predominant characteristics of hypodontia, hypotrichosis, delayed hair growth and brittle nails. Additionally focal dermal hypoplasia, irregular hyperpigmentation, hypoplastic or absent nipples, amastia, hearing impairment, congenital hip dislocation and asthma have been associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1996.
deafness craniofacial syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of congenital hearing loss and facial dysmorphism (facial asymmetry, a broad nasal root and small nasal alae). It has been described in two members (father and daughter) of one Jewish family. Temporal alopecia was also noted. Transmission appeared to be autosomal dominant.
cyprus facial neuromusculoskeletal syndrome	The syndrome has been described in a single Greek Cypriot family, over three generations. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992. Affected individuals have a striking facial appearance (described as Mephistophelian) and variable skeletal deformities and neuromuscular abnormalities. The facial appearance consists of a thickened, ridged, triangular skin fold extending from the glabella to the anterior fontanelle, elevation of the medial portion of the eyebrows bilaterally, hypertelorism, low-set ears, posteriorly rotated ears and widow's peak. Musculoskeletal features may coexist and include congenital kyphoscoliosis, hip dislocation, congenital talipes equinovarus and arthrogryposis. Neurological and musculoskeletal defects are severe and incapacitating in some affected family members, while all have normal intelligence. The cause of this syndrome is not known.
cutis gyrata syndrome of beare and stevenson	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by the premature fusion of the bones of the skull (craniosynostosis) and a skin abnormality called cutis gyrata. The craniosynostosis results in a cloverleaf-shaped skull, wide-set eyes, ear abnormalities, underdeveloped upper jaw, and developmental delays. Cutis gyrata is characterized by a wrinkled skin appearance, especially on the face, near the ears, and on the palms and soles.
cryptomicrotia brachydactyly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome describes a combination of malformations that include bilateral cryptomicrotia (recessed, hidden and small or absent ears), brachytelomesophalangy with short middle and distal phalanges of digits two through five, hypoplastic toenails and excess fingertip arch patterns. The syndrome has been reported in one family (mother and son). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
deafness with labyrinthine aplasia microtia and microdontia (lamm)	A genetic transmission deafness syndrome. The profound congenital deafness is associated with a complete absence of inner ear structures (Michel aplasia) microtia type I with small auricle and narrow external auditory canal and microdontia with widely spaced teeth. Linkage analysis followed by sequencing of candidate genes led to identification of three different homozygous mutations in the FGF3 gene (11q13). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
acropectoral syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of a combination of distal limb abnormalities (syndactyly of all fingers and toes, preaxial polydactyly in the feet and/or hands) and upper sternum malformations. It has been described in 22 patients from a six-generation Turkish family. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait and the causative gene is located at 7q36.
hibm	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the GNE gene, encoding bifunctional UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase. It is characterized by distal muscle weakness and atrophy, especially the tibialis anterior, and sparing of the quadriceps.
dcwhk	This syndrome has characteristics of wooly hair, palmoplantar keratoderma and dilated cardiomyopathy principally affecting the left ventricle. Only a few cases have been reported, all involving patients from Ecuador, India or Turkey. The wooly hair is present at birth and the palmoplantar keratoderma appears during the first year of life. The cardiac anomaly presents during childhood and is marked by dilation of the left ventricle accompanied by alterations in muscle contractility. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and is caused by mutations in the DSP gene (6p24) encoding desmoplakin, a protein involved in cell adhesion. The syndrome is similar to Naxos disease.
cardiomyopathy, dilated, with woolly hair and keratoderma	This syndrome has characteristics of wooly hair, palmoplantar keratoderma and dilated cardiomyopathy principally affecting the left ventricle. Only a few cases have been reported, all involving patients from Ecuador, India or Turkey. The wooly hair is present at birth and the palmoplantar keratoderma appears during the first year of life. The cardiac anomaly presents during childhood and is marked by dilation of the left ventricle accompanied by alterations in muscle contractility. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and is caused by mutations in the DSP gene (6p24) encoding desmoplakin, a protein involved in cell adhesion. The syndrome is similar to Naxos disease.
cerebro-oculo-nasal syndrome	A multisystem malformation syndrome that has been reported in about 10 patients. The clinical features include bilateral anophthalmia, abnormal nares, central nervous system anomalies, and neurodevelopmental delay. Additional features include brachycephaly and other facial anomalies. Non-facial anomalies have also been reported: postaxial polydactyly, genital hypoplasia. All cases reported so far have been sporadic, suggesting that the syndrome may be due to a new dominant mutation.
cerebrooculonasal syndrome (disorder)	A multisystem malformation syndrome that has been reported in about 10 patients. The clinical features include bilateral anophthalmia, abnormal nares, central nervous system anomalies, and neurodevelopmental delay. Additional features include brachycephaly and other facial anomalies. Non-facial anomalies have also been reported: postaxial polydactyly, genital hypoplasia. All cases reported so far have been sporadic, suggesting that the syndrome may be due to a new dominant mutation.
growth deficiency and mental retardation with facial dysmorphism	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of short stature, hypertrichosis cubiti, facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, long eyelashes, thick eyebrows, downslanted, vertically narrow, long palpebral fissures, wide nasal bridge, broad nasal tip, long philtrum), developmental delay and mild to moderate intellectual disability. It has a variable clinical phenotype with additional manifestations reported including muscular hypotonia, patent ductus arteriosus, small hands and feet, hypertrichosis on the back and seizures. There is evidence the disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MLL gene on chromosome 11q23.
wdsts	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of short stature, hypertrichosis cubiti, facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, long eyelashes, thick eyebrows, downslanted, vertically narrow, long palpebral fissures, wide nasal bridge, broad nasal tip, long philtrum), developmental delay and mild to moderate intellectual disability. It has a variable clinical phenotype with additional manifestations reported including muscular hypotonia, patent ductus arteriosus, small hands and feet, hypertrichosis on the back and seizures. There is evidence the disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MLL gene on chromosome 11q23.
intellectual disability, myopathy, short stature, endocrine defect syndrome	A rare congenital myopathy syndrome characterised by nonprogressive myopathy (manifesting with mild facial and generalised weakness, bilateral ptosis, and severe lumbar lordosis), severe intellectual disability, short stature, and sexual infantilism (due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism). The presence of a small pituitary fossa was also noted. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
pterygium syndrome, multiple, lethal type	A rare variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by severe athrogryposis, pterygium, akinesia and often hydrops fetalis and cystic hygroma. This variant is fatal, usually during the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
lethal multiple pterygium syndrome	A rare variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by severe athrogryposis, pterygium, akinesia and often hydrops fetalis and cystic hygroma. This variant is fatal, usually during the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism, hypogonadism, diabetes mellitus syndrome (diagnosis)	This syndrome has characteristics of moderate intellectual deficit, craniofacial dysmorphism, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, eunuchoid habitus, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and epilepsy. It has been described in four patients (three brothers and their sister). This syndrome is probably transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
frank-ter haar syndrome	Frank-ter Haar syndrome (formerly considered as an autosomal recessive form of Melnick-Needles syndrome) has characteristics of megalocornea, multiple skeletal anomalies, characteristic facial dysmorphism (wide fontanelles, prominent forehead, hypertelorism, prominent eyes, full cheeks and micrognathia) and developmental delay. Less than 30 cases have been reported worldwide. Protruding ears, prominent coccyx bone and congenital heart defects are frequently present.
lymphedema-hypoparathyroidism syndrome	A very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome, described in 2 adult brothers, characterised by the association of hypoparathyroidism, nephropathy, congenital lymphoedema, mitral valve prolapse and brachytelephalangy. Additional features include mild facial dysmorphism, hypertrichosis and nail abnormalities.
pulmonic stenosis, brachytelephalangism, and calcification of cartilages	Syndrome with characteristics of diffuse cartilage calcification, brachytelephalangism, peripheral pulmonary artery stenoses and facial dysmorphism. The abnormal calcification principally involves the cartilage of the ears, nose, larynx and the tracheobronchial tree. Epiphyseal stippling of the long bones and calcification of the spinal column vertebrae have also been reported. The dysmorphism is characterised by an elongated face with maxillary and midface hypoplasia. Other associated features may include hearing loss and recurrent otitis and/or sinusitis, mild intellectual deficit, frequent respiratory infections, nasal speech and, more rarely, seizures and short stature. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the matrix Gla protein (MGP, located at 12p13.1-p12.3). The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
haim-munk syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, severe early-onset periodontitis, onychogryposis, pes planus, arachnodactyly and acroosteolysis. The syndrome presents with severe and extensive skin manifestations. Severe, early-onset progressive periodontitis that affects both the deciduous and permanent dentitions and presents with gingival inflammation and alveolar bone destruction is a hallmark of the disease. Onychogryposis, arachnodactyly, acroosteolysis and pes planus are additional features that help to distinguish from other forms of palmoplantar hyperkeratosis. The syndrome is caused by germline mutations in the lysosomal protease cathepsin C (CTSC) gene mapped to chromosome 11q14.1-q14.3. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor retardation, microcephaly, up-slanting palpebral fissures, eye abnormalities (microcornea, strabismus, myopia, optic atrophy), high-arched palate, preauricular skin tags and micrognathia with respiratory distress. Other anomalies can be present and include long thin hands and feet, ambiguous genitalia, hypertelorism. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the UBE3B gene (608047) on chromosome 12q24.
blepharophimosis-ptosis-intellectual disability syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor retardation, microcephaly, up-slanting palpebral fissures, eye abnormalities (microcornea, strabismus, myopia, optic atrophy), high-arched palate, preauricular skin tags and micrognathia with respiratory distress. Other anomalies can be present and include long thin hands and feet, ambiguous genitalia, hypertelorism. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the UBE3B gene (608047) on chromosome 12q24.
ichthyosis, alopecia, eclabion, ectropion, intellectual disability syndrome	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by severe generalised lamellar icthyosis at birth with alopecia, eclabium, ectropion and intellectual disability. Although similar to Sjogren-Larsson syndrome, this syndrome lacks the presence of neurologic or macular changes. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
self-healing collodion baby	A minor variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis with manifestation of a collodion membrane at birth that heals within the first weeks of life. The exact prevalence is unknown. Approximately 25 cases have been reported in the literature. After the shedding of the membrane, patients present with mild scaling. Caused by mutations in the TGM1, ALOXE3 or ALOX12B genes encoding respectively transglutaminase 1, involved in the cornification of the stratum corneum, and arachidonate 3 and 12(R) lipoxygenases involved in lipid metabolism. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
athyroidal hypothyroidism with spiky hair and cleft palate syndrome	A very rare syndrome of congenital hypothyroidism with characteristics of thyroid dysgenesis, cleft palate and spiky hair, with or without choanal atresia, and bifid epiglottis. Facial dysmorphism and porencephaly have been reported in isolated cases. Only 8 patients from 6 families have been reported to date. Newborns present at birth with thyroid dysgenesis (in most cases athyreosis) leading to congenital hypothyroidism that manifests with lethargy, poor feeding, macroglossia, cold or mottled skin, persistent jaundice and umbilical hernia. All newborns have a cleft palate and spiky hair. The syndrome is due to homozygous loss-of-function missense mutations located within the forkhead domain of the FOXE1 gene (9q22), encoding thyroid transcription factor 2 (TTF-2). TTF-2 is expressed in the thyroid gland (as well as elsewhere like the tongue, epiglottis and palate) and is thought to play a crucial role in thyroid morphogenesis. The disease is inherited autosomal recessively.
bamforth-lazarus syndrome	A very rare syndrome of congenital hypothyroidism with characteristics of thyroid dysgenesis, cleft palate and spiky hair, with or without choanal atresia, and bifid epiglottis. Facial dysmorphism and porencephaly have been reported in isolated cases. Only 8 patients from 6 families have been reported to date. Newborns present at birth with thyroid dysgenesis (in most cases athyreosis) leading to congenital hypothyroidism that manifests with lethargy, poor feeding, macroglossia, cold or mottled skin, persistent jaundice and umbilical hernia. All newborns have a cleft palate and spiky hair. The syndrome is due to homozygous loss-of-function missense mutations located within the forkhead domain of the FOXE1 gene (9q22), encoding thyroid transcription factor 2 (TTF-2). TTF-2 is expressed in the thyroid gland (as well as elsewhere like the tongue, epiglottis and palate) and is thought to play a crucial role in thyroid morphogenesis. The disease is inherited autosomal recessively.
hypomandibular faciocranial dysostosis	A cranial malformation with characteristics of facial dysmorphism (proptosis, frontal bossing, midface and zygomatic arches hypoplasia, short nose with anteverted nostrils, microstomia with persistent buccopharyngeal membrane, severe hypoglossia with glossoptosis, severe mandibular hypoplasia and low set ears) associated with laryngeal hypoplasia and craniosynostosis. Other variable features include cleft palate, optic nerve coloboma and choanal stenosis. An autosomal recessive mode of inheritance has been suggested.
acrofrontofacionasal dysostosis 2	A very rare syndrome associating an acro-fronto-facio-nasal dysostosis with genitourinary anomalies. It has been described in three families. Craniofacial manifestations include wide anterior fontanelle, flat occiput, hypertelorism, ptosis, proptosis, broad nasal bridge and nasal tip, long philtrum and posteriorly rotated or low set ears. Hypospadias and shawl scrotum are present in all males. Acral manifestations include syndactyly of fingers, broad thumbs or halluces or preaxial polydactyly. The affected patients have no intellectual deficit. The condition seems to be hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
al gazali donnai mueller syndrome	A fatal malformative disorder with characteristics of Hirschsprung disease, hypoplastic nails, distal limb hypoplasia and minor craniofacial dysmorphic features (flat facies, upward slanting palpebral fissures, narrow philtrum, narrow, high arched palate, micrognathia, low set ears with abnormal helices). Hydronephrosis has also been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
microcephaly, mental retardation, and distinct facial features, with or without hirschsprung disease	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the ZEB2 gene. It is characterized by mental retardation, and a distinctive facial appearance (wide set eyes, uplifted earlobes, broad nasal bridge, prominent chin, and a smiling expression). The majority of patients have Hirschsprung disease (colonic enlargement and constipation due to intestinal blockage).
heimler syndrome	This syndrome is characterised by sensorineural hearing loss, generalised enamel hypoplasia of the permanent dentition with normal primary dentition and nail defects (Beau's lines and leukonychia). Less than 10 patients have been described so far. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
hair defect with photosensitivity and mental retardation	Syndrome with the association of stubby, coarse, sparse and fragile hair, eyebrows and eyelashes with photosensitivity and nonprogressive intellectual deficit, without a demonstrable metabolic aberration. It has been described in three sisters born to consanguineous parents.
xy type gonadal dysgenesis with associated anomalies syndrome (disorder)	An association syndrome described only once in two sisters. They had a 46,XY karyotype, cleft lip and palate, preauricular pits and a 'squashed down' appearance because of a short columella and small nares. Other anomalies included broad hands and feet, and a hypermuscular appearance. Cardiac, renal, musculoskeletal and ectodermal anomalies were also present. Ectodermal defects included 'punched out scalp defects' and unusual positioning of hair whorls. They also had short stature, streak gonads, and mild developmental delay.
fibulo-ulnar hypoplasia and renal anomalies syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has features of fibuloulnar dysostosis with renal anomalies. It has been described in two siblings born to nonconsanguinous parents. The syndrome is lethal at birth (respiratory failure). Clinical manifestations include ear and facial anomalies (including micrognathia), symmetrical shortness of long bones, fibular agenesis and hypoplastic ulna, oligosyndactyly, congenital heart defects, and cystic or hypoplastic kidney. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
fuhrmann syndrome	This syndrome has main characteristics of bowing of the femora, aplasia or hypoplasia of the fibulae and poly, oligo and syndactyly. It has been reported in 11 patients. Most of the patients also had a hypoplastic pelvis and hypoplasia of the fingers and fingernails. Some had congenital dislocation of the hip, absence or fusion of tarsal bones, absence of various metatarsals and hypoplasia and aplasia of the toes. The syndrome is caused by a partial loss of WNT7A function (gene mapped to 3p25).
facio-digito-genital syndrome kuwait type	A very rare syndrome including short stature, facial dysmorphism, hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum. It has been observed in 16 subjects from five distantly related sibships of a large Kuwaiti Bedouin tribe. The affected patients had no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
kuwait type faciodigitogenital syndrome	A very rare syndrome including short stature, facial dysmorphism, hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum. It has been observed in 16 subjects from five distantly related sibships of a large Kuwaiti Bedouin tribe. The affected patients had no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
faciocardiomelic dysplasia, lethal	Lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia is an extremely rare polymalformative syndrome. It was described only once, in 1975, in 3 affected males in a sibship of 13, from second-cousin parents. Patients were all of low birth weight, had microretrognathia, microstomia, and microglossia, hypoplasia of the radius and ulna with radial deviation of the hands, simian creases and hypoplasia of fingers I and V, hypoplasia of the fibula and tibia with talipes and wide space between toes I and II, and severe malformation of the left heart which may have been responsible for death of all 3 in the first week or so of life.
ectodermal dysplasia, ectrodactyly, and macular dystrophy	Syndrome with the association of ectodermal dysplasia, ectrodactyly, and macular dystrophy. So far, it has been described in individuals from seven families. Hypotrichosis, dental anomalies and absent eyebrows have also been reported. Appears to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and may be caused by mutations in the cadherin-3 gene (CH3, 16q22.1).
dyssegmental dysplasia silverman handmaker type	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia and lethal form of neonatal short-limbed dwarfism, with characteristics of anisospondyly, severe short stature and limb shortening, metaphyseal flaring and distinct dysmorphic features (flat facial appearance, abnormal ears, short neck, narrow thorax). Additional features may include other skeletal findings (for example joint contractures, bowed limbs, talipes equinovarus) and urogenital and cardiovascular abnormalities.
phocomelia, thrombocytopenia, encephalocele, urogenital malformations	A very rare disorder with phocomelia of upper limbs, encephalocele, variable brain anomalies, urogenital abnormalities and thrombocytopenia. Less than 15 cases have been reported. The spectrum of upper limb defects varies from radial agenesis and phocomelia to amelia. A meningoencephalocele is constant. The intellectual development may be normal. Pathogenesis and cause of this syndrome are unknown. Parental consanguinity reported in a family suggests an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
dk phocomelia syndrome	A very rare disorder with phocomelia of upper limbs, encephalocele, variable brain anomalies, urogenital abnormalities and thrombocytopenia. Less than 15 cases have been reported. The spectrum of upper limb defects varies from radial agenesis and phocomelia to amelia. A meningoencephalocele is constant. The intellectual development may be normal. Pathogenesis and cause of this syndrome are unknown. Parental consanguinity reported in a family suggests an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
dermatoosteolysis, kirghizian type	Disease with characteristics of recurrent skin ulceration, arthralgia, fever, peri-articular osteolysis, oligodontia and nail dystrophy. This disease has been described in five siblings in a family of Kirghizian origin (Central Asia). Three of the siblings also presented with keratitis leading to visual impairment or blindness. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
dermatoleukodystrophy	This syndrome is characterised by the association of a progressive leukodystrophy marked by generalised mental and motor impairment with the presence of thickened and wrinkled skin. It has been described in a Japanese brother and sister born to healthy parents. Both patients died in early childhood.
craniosynostosis with congenital heart disease and intellectual disability syndrome	An extremely rare disorder found in less than ten patients worldwide with characteristics of congenital heart defect, sagittal craniosynostosis and severe developmental delay. Genital and renal anomalies, and various dysmorphic features may be present. Joint and palpebral abnormalities may also occur. The occurrence of the syndrome in a brother-sister sibship supports the hypothesis of autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance and submicroscopic deletions have also been proposed as possible causes.
temtys	A very rare congenital genetic neurological disorder with characteristics of agenesis/hypoplasia of corpus callosum with developmental abnormalities, ocular disorders and variable craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities. Most reported families have multiple cases of Temtamy syndrome and almost all affected individuals are from consanguineous unions. The main clinical findings are dysmorphic facies, hypotonia, moderate to severe intellectual disability, intractable seizures and autistic features such as absent language or stereotypy. Motor and cognitive delay usually manifests in early childhood. The pathogenesis of Temtamy syndrome is not known. Various mutations (homozygous, missense, compound heterozygous) in the C12orf57 gene (12p13.31) have been reported in affected patients. Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
craniofacial dysmorphism with coloboma of eye and corpus callosum agenesis syndrome (disorder)	A very rare congenital genetic neurological disorder with characteristics of agenesis/hypoplasia of corpus callosum with developmental abnormalities, ocular disorders and variable craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities. Most reported families have multiple cases of Temtamy syndrome and almost all affected individuals are from consanguineous unions. The main clinical findings are dysmorphic facies, hypotonia, moderate to severe intellectual disability, intractable seizures and autistic features such as absent language or stereotypy. Motor and cognitive delay usually manifests in early childhood. The pathogenesis of Temtamy syndrome is not known. Various mutations (homozygous, missense, compound heterozygous) in the C12orf57 gene (12p13.31) have been reported in affected patients. Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
crane heise syndrome	A very rare syndrome characterised by poorly mineralised calvarium, facial dysmorphism, vertebral abnormalities and absent clavicles. Nine cases have been reported in the literature so far. Dysmorphic features include micrognathia, cleft palate, hypertelorism and upturned nares. Clavicular aplasia is constant and agenesis of cervical vertebral bodies is frequent. Intra uterine growth retardation is constant. It is most likely that the condition is hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor, the syndrome is almost always lethal soon after birth.
hydronephrosis, congenital, with cleft palate, characteristic facies, hypotonia, and mental retardation	Okamoto syndrome is characterized by congenital hydronephrosis, intellectual deficit, growth retardation, cleft palate, generalized hypotonia and a characteristic face. Cardiac anomalies have also been reported. To date, 6 cases have been reported.
craniosynostosis, boston-type	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of highly variable craniosynostosis with frontal bossing, turribrachycephaly and cloverleaf skull anomaly. Hypoplasia of the supraorbital ridges, cleft palate, extra teeth and limb anomalies has also been described. Associated problems include headache, poor vision, and seizures. Intelligence is normal.
craniosynostosis boston type (disorder)	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of highly variable craniosynostosis with frontal bossing, turribrachycephaly and cloverleaf skull anomaly. Hypoplasia of the supraorbital ridges, cleft palate, extra teeth and limb anomalies has also been described. Associated problems include headache, poor vision, and seizures. Intelligence is normal.
ectodermal dysplasia-skin fragility syndrome	A suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterized by generalized superficial erosions and less commonly blistering. Prevalence is unknown but 11 cases have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth with skin blistering and generalized erythema which rapidly regresses. The disease is due to mutations in the PKP1 (1q32) gene encoding plakophilin-1. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
vohwinkel ichthyosis syndrome	A diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma with manifestation of honeycomb palmoplantar hyperkeratosis associated with pseudoainhum of the fifth digit of the hand, ichthyosis and deafness.Follows an autosomal dominant mode of transmission.
cleft-limb-heart malformation syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of multiple skeletal malformations (short femora and humeri, bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet, bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligo/polysyndactyly, deformed lumbosacral spine), congenital heart disease (truncus arteriosus), lung and urogenital malformations (bilateral bilobar lungs, horseshoe kidney, cryptorchidism), and facial malformations (bilateral cleft lip and palate, micrognathia, small, low-set ears without external meatus). It is lethal in the neonatal period. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
cleft limb heart malformation syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of multiple skeletal malformations (short femora and humeri, bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet, bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligo/polysyndactyly, deformed lumbosacral spine), congenital heart disease (truncus arteriosus), lung and urogenital malformations (bilateral bilobar lungs, horseshoe kidney, cryptorchidism), and facial malformations (bilateral cleft lip and palate, micrognathia, small, low-set ears without external meatus). It is lethal in the neonatal period. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
cerebellar hypoplasia, nonprogressive norman type	In this disorder cerebellar ataxia is congenital (non-progressive) and characterised by cerebellar symptoms such as incoordination of gait often associated with poor coordination of hands, speech and eye movements. The other features are congenital mental retardation and hypotonia, in addition to other neurological and non-neurological features. The mode of inheritance in the few reported families is autosomal recessive.
cerebellar ataxia co-occurrent with ectodermal dysplasia	A very rare disease, characterized by hypodontia and sparse hair in combination with cerebellar ataxia and normal intelligence. Imaging demonstrates cerebellar atrophy.
congenital heart disease and skeletal malformations	Heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia (including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs). It has been described only once in the literature, in two male siblings from Kuwaiti first cousins. The clinical and radiological features of these patients were reported as a distinct cardio-skeletal syndrome.
camptodactyly with muscular hypoplasia, skeletal dysplasia, and abnormal palmar creases	A rare syndrome with characteristics of camptodactyly, muscle hypoplasia and weakness, skeletal anomalies, facial dysmorphism and abnormal dermatoglyphics. Dysmorphic features include facial asymmetry, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, long philtrum and a small mouth. Winging scapulae, scoliosis, syndactyly and clinodactyly are commonly observed. The affected patients usually have normal mental development. The molecular basis of the syndrome has not yet been elucidated.
tel hashomer camptodactyly syndrome (disorder)	A rare syndrome with characteristics of camptodactyly, muscle hypoplasia and weakness, skeletal anomalies, facial dysmorphism and abnormal dermatoglyphics. Dysmorphic features include facial asymmetry, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, long philtrum and a small mouth. Winging scapulae, scoliosis, syndactyly and clinodactyly are commonly observed. The affected patients usually have normal mental development. The molecular basis of the syndrome has not yet been elucidated.
camptodactyly syndrome, guadalajara, type i	A rare syndrome consisting of growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, camptodactyly and skeletal anomalies. To date only eight cases have been reported in the literature. Dysmorphic features include flat face, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, small downturned mouth, small ears with attached lobule and abnormal dental eruption and occlusion. Some patients had psychomotor development delayed. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
camptodactyly syndrome guadalajara type 1 (disorder)	A rare syndrome consisting of growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, camptodactyly and skeletal anomalies. To date only eight cases have been reported in the literature. Dysmorphic features include flat face, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, small downturned mouth, small ears with attached lobule and abnormal dental eruption and occlusion. Some patients had psychomotor development delayed. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
brachymetapody-anodontia-hypotrichosis-albinoidism	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital anodontia, a small maxilla, short stature with shortened metacarpals and metatarsals, sparse hair, albinoidism and multiple ocular anomalies. It has been described in three siblings (one brother and two sisters). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
bird-headed dwarfism, montreal type	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of severe short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism (microcephaly, narrow face with flat cheeks, ptosis, prominent nose with a convex ridge, low-set ears with small or absent lobes, high-arched/cleft palate, micrognathia), associated with premature graying and loss of scalp hair, redundant, dry and wrinkled skin of the palms, premature senility and varying degrees of intellectual disability. Cryptorchidism and skeletal anomalies may also be observed. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1970.
beemer lethal malformation syndrome	A lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first-cousin parents with characteristics of hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bones and unusual facies with down-slanting palpebral fissures, bulbous nose, broad nasal bridge, micrognathia and a long upper lip. Transmission is likely autosomal recessive. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1984.
hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bones, etc.	A lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first-cousin parents with characteristics of hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bones and unusual facies with down-slanting palpebral fissures, bulbous nose, broad nasal bridge, micrognathia and a long upper lip. Transmission is likely autosomal recessive. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1984.
johnston aarons schelley syndrome	An arthrogryposis syndrome described in two siblings to date with the association of multiple congenital joint contractures (of the large joints, fingers and toes) and hyperkeratosis (i.e. thick, scaling and fissured skin) and death occurring in early infancy. There have been no further reports in the literature since 1993.
lethal autosomal recessive arthrogryposis multiplex congenita with whistling face and calcifications of the nervous system	An extremely rare type of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita with the combination of multiple joint contractures with movement limitation and microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth that may cause feeding, swallowing and speech difficulties, a distinctive expressionless facies, severe developmental delay, central and autonomous nervous system dysfunction, occasionally Pierre-Robin sequence and lethality generally occurring during the first months of life.
illum syndrome	An extremely rare type of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita with the combination of multiple joint contractures with movement limitation and microstomia with a whistling appearance of the mouth that may cause feeding, swallowing and speech difficulties, a distinctive expressionless facies, severe developmental delay, central and autonomous nervous system dysfunction, occasionally Pierre-Robin sequence and lethality generally occurring during the first months of life.
albinism-microcephaly-digital anomalies syndrome	A very rare syndrome associating microcephaly, micrognathia, oculocutaneous albinism, hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fingers and agenesia of the distal end of the right big toe. It has been described in two siblings. Both brother and sister had psychomotor retardation and died in the course of a respiratory infection. The reported cases suggest that the condition is hereditary, and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
microcephalus with albinism and digital anomaly syndrome	A very rare syndrome associating microcephaly, micrognathia, oculocutaneous albinism, hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fingers and agenesia of the distal end of the right big toe. It has been described in two siblings. Both brother and sister had psychomotor retardation and died in the course of a respiratory infection. The reported cases suggest that the condition is hereditary, and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
pagod syndrome	PAGOD syndrome is a severe developmental syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital anomalies including cardiovascular defects, pulmonary hypoplasia, diaphragmatic defects and genital anomalies. Since the first publication in 1991, only 11 patients have been described. Neonates with PAGOD syndrome present with several visceral anomalies: hypoplasia of right or left lung, diaphragmatic hernia, omphalocele, various cardiac anomalies including, amongst others atrial septal defect, left ventricular hypoplasia or ventricular septal defect and great vessels anomalies such as aortic hypoplasia and pulmonary artery hypoplasia or atresia. Cardiac and mediastinal structures may be in dextroposition. Ambiguous external genitalia can be observed in some cases and all patient's present gonadal agenesis or hypoplasia and developmental anomalies of Wolffian and Mullerian duct structures. Vitamin A deficiency has been suggested to play a role in the development of the syndrome. Almost all cases are sporadic.
kaplan plauchu fitch syndrome	A very rare form of acrofacial dysostosis, reported in two sisters to date, with characteristics of short stature, acrocephaly, ocular hypertelorism, ptosis of eyelids, ocular proptosis, downslanting palpebral fissures, high nasal bridge, anteverted nostrils, short philtrum, cleft palate, micrognathia, abnormal external ears, preauricular pits, mixed hearing loss, bulbous digits, metatarsus varus, pectus excavatum and various radiological abnormalities. Features of this syndrome were reported to overlap with otopalatodigital syndrome types 1 and 2. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
acrocraniofacial dysostosis (disorder)	A very rare form of acrofacial dysostosis, reported in two sisters to date, with characteristics of short stature, acrocephaly, ocular hypertelorism, ptosis of eyelids, ocular proptosis, downslanting palpebral fissures, high nasal bridge, anteverted nostrils, short philtrum, cleft palate, micrognathia, abnormal external ears, preauricular pits, mixed hearing loss, bulbous digits, metatarsus varus, pectus excavatum and various radiological abnormalities. Features of this syndrome were reported to overlap with otopalatodigital syndrome types 1 and 2. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
neuroectodermal melanolysosomal disease (disorder)	Syndrome that is characterised by silvery to leaden hair, bronze skin colour in sun-exposed areas and severe neurological impairment. The syndrome was first described in 1979 in three consanguineous families. It is either congenital or develops during childhood (seizures, severe hypotonia and intellectual deficit). There is no impairment of the immune system and a wide spectrum of ophthalmologic abnormalities has been described. Molecular data has shed light on the complex relationship that exists between this syndrome and Griscelli syndrome. Mutations in the myosin Va gene (MYOVA) result in the so-called Griscelli syndrome type 1. MYOVA encodes myosin Va, an actin-based motor protein important for the intracellular transport of organelles in melanocyte and neuronal cells. It is very likely that Griscelli syndrome type 1 corresponds to with this syndrome.
acrorenal mandibular syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of limb deficiencies and renal anomalies that include split hand-split foot malformation, renal agenesis, polycystic kidneys, uterine anomalies and severe mandibular hypoplasia.
pyramidal molars, glaucoma, abnormal upper lip	Ackerman syndrome has characteristics of pyramidal molar roots and taurodontism associated with variable anomalies. It has been described in two generations of one family. Both parents and their six siblings had pyramidal, taurodont or fused molar roots. Some of the patients also had hypotrichosis, an abnormal upper lip, thickened and wide philtrum, and/or juvenile glaucoma. Other features included entropion of the eyelid, syndactyly and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers.
ackerman syndrome	Ackerman syndrome has characteristics of pyramidal molar roots and taurodontism associated with variable anomalies. It has been described in two generations of one family. Both parents and their six siblings had pyramidal, taurodont or fused molar roots. Some of the patients also had hypotrichosis, an abnormal upper lip, thickened and wide philtrum, and/or juvenile glaucoma. Other features included entropion of the eyelid, syndactyly and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers.
uncombable hair, retinal pigmentary dystrophy, dental anomalies, and brachydactyly	An autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome, with characteristics of uncombable hair syndrome, congenital hypotrichosis and dental abnormalities such as oligodontia or hyperdontia and associated with early-onset cataract, retinal pigmentary dystrophy and brachydactyly with brachymetacarpia. Furthermore, hyperactivity and a mild intellectual deficit have been reported in affected patients.
thoracolaryngopelvic dysplasia	A short-rib dysplasia with characteristics of thoracic dystrophy, laryngeal stenosis and a small pelvis. Less than 10 cases have been reported in the literature so far. Patients present with severe respiratory distress (requiring intubation) during the neonatal period. The rib shortening is less severe than in Jeune syndrome and the thorax is characteristically small, narrow and bell-shaped. The pelvis is reduced in all dimensions and the combination of the thorax anomalies and the small pelvis give the appearance of a protruding abdomen. Subglottic stenosis has also been described but it remains unclear whether this is a congenital anomaly or is secondary to long-term intubation. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
growth hormone deficiency with wormian bones, cardiac anomaly, and brachycamptodactyly	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of wormian bones, dextrocardia and short stature due to a growth hormone deficiency. Additional manifestations that have been reported include brachycamptodactyly, kidney hypoplasia, bilateral cryptorchidism, midshaft hypospadias, imperforate anus/anorectal agenesis, body asymmetry, mild developmental delay, hemimegalencephaly and facial dysmorphism, such as hypotelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, low-set and posteriorly angulated ears, depressed nasal bridge and microstomia.
bcds	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with the association of abnormalities of the eyelids, lips, and teeth. These anomalies include lower eyelid ectropion, upper eyelid distichiasis, euryblepharon, bilateral cleft lip and palate and conical teeth. Additional occasional features include hypertelorism, lagophthalmos, imperforate anus, and syndactyly. Prevalence is unknown. Over 50 cases have been described in literature to date. Transmission is autosomal dominant with 100% penetrance.
brachymorphism with onychodysplasia and dysphalangism syndrome (disorder)	A very rare malformation syndrome with characteristics of short stature, hypoplastic fifth digits with tiny dysplastic nails, facial dysmorphism with coarse features including a wide mouth and broad nose, and mild intellectual disability. It has been suggested that Coffin-Siris syndrome and BOD syndrome are perhaps allelic variants.
asod	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
cooks syndrome	A rare malformation syndrome affecting the apical structures of digits and presenting with hypo/aplasia of nails and distal phalanges. Cooks syndrome is congenital and presents with hypo/anonychia, small or absent distal phalanges and digitalization of the thumbs. Usually, the nails of digits 1-3 are progressively deformed, with anonychia congenita totalis in the digits 4-5 and in all toes. Additional features include hypoplasia of the distal phalanges in digits 2-4 with absence of the distal phalanx of digit 5. In the feet, there is absence of all distal phalanges of digits 2-5 with hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of digit 1.
aniridia and absent patella	A syndrome described in three members of a family (a boy, his father and his paternal grandmother) with the association of aniridia and patella aplasia or hypoplasia. The grandmother also had bilateral cataracts and glaucoma. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1975.
ameloonychohypohidrotic syndrome (disorder)	A rare syndrome comprising hypocalcified-hypoplastic tooth enamel, onycholysis with subungual hyperkeratosis, and hypohidrosis.
acro-dermato-ungual-lacrimal-tooth syndrome	The ADULT (acro-dermato-ungual-lacrimal-tooth) syndrome has characteristics of ectrodactyly, excessive freckling, onychodysplasia, obstruction of lacrimal ducts and hypodontia and/or early loss of permanent teeth. Variable clinical expression is observed. Fourteen cases have been described so far. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
acropectorovertebral dysplasia	A skeletal dysplasia with characteristics of fusion of the carpal and tarsal bones and complex anomalies of the fingers and toes. It has been described in less than 30 patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations include prominence of the sternum with variable pectus excavatum, lumbosacral spina bifida occulta, minor craniofacial anomalies and mild intellectual deficit. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with full penetrance. The causative gene has been mapped to chromosome region 2q36.
acropectorovertebral dysplasia (disorder)	A skeletal dysplasia with characteristics of fusion of the carpal and tarsal bones and complex anomalies of the fingers and toes. It has been described in less than 30 patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations include prominence of the sternum with variable pectus excavatum, lumbosacral spina bifida occulta, minor craniofacial anomalies and mild intellectual deficit. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with full penetrance. The causative gene has been mapped to chromosome region 2q36.
say-barber-biesecker-young-simpson syndrome	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
limb mammary syndrome	A rare type of ectodermal dysplasia. Less than 50 cases have been described in the literature so far. Clinically, the syndrome has characteristics of severe hand and/or foot anomalies, and hypoplasia/aplasia of the mammary gland and nipple. Clinical expression is extremely variable. Individuals with mild LMS have isolated athelia. All three major categories of limb defects (i.e., deficiencies, duplications and fusion/separation defects), as well as several combinations of these anomalies, were observed. Variation in the severity of the limb defects may be observed, not only between individuals but also between the left and right hand/foot of one individual. Skin and hair are spared. An autosomal dominant disease caused by loss-of-function mutations in exon 13 and 14 of the TP63 gene found on the subtelomeric region of chromosome 3 (3q27).
growth deficiency, facial anomalies, and brachydactyly	A rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of ocular anomalies (anophthalmia/microphthalmia, ptosis, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), pituitary anomalies (pituitary hypoplasia/aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation) and hand/foot anomalies (polydactyly, short digits, pes cavus). Other clinical features may include muscular hypotonia, psychomotor development delay/intellectual disability, dysmorphic signs (facial asymmetry, microretrognathia, high-arched palate, ear anomalies), congenital genitourinary malformations and hearing impairment. Smaller 14q22 deletions may have variable expression.
14q22-q23 microdeletion syndrome	A rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of ocular anomalies (anophthalmia/microphthalmia, ptosis, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), pituitary anomalies (pituitary hypoplasia/aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation) and hand/foot anomalies (polydactyly, short digits, pes cavus). Other clinical features may include muscular hypotonia, psychomotor development delay/intellectual disability, dysmorphic signs (facial asymmetry, microretrognathia, high-arched palate, ear anomalies), congenital genitourinary malformations and hearing impairment. Smaller 14q22 deletions may have variable expression.
17q21.31 microdeletion syndrome	A chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay, childhood hypotonia, facial dysmorphism, and friendly/amiable behavior. Abnormal hair pigmentation and texture is also frequent. Short stature, pectus excavatum, spine anomalies, dislocation of the hip, long slender fingers and slender lower limbs, and positional deformities of the hands/feet have also been reported. In all patients, global psychomotor developmental delay is noted from an early age. The recurrent 17q21.31 deletion encompasses at least six genes: C17orf69, CRHR1, IMP5, MAPT, STH and KIAA1267.
craniomicromelic syndrome (disorder)	A very rare disorder with characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, under-ossification of the skull with large fontanelles, short limbs with absent phalanges and finger and toe syndactyly. Only 4 cases have been reported in the literature in 3 unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include narrow face with small palpebral fissures, small pointed nose, microstomia, micrognathia and low-set and posteriorly rotated ears. A posterior encephalocele and other congenital malformations can be observed. Prognosis is poor.
odonto-tricho-ungual-digito-palmar syndrome mendoza-valiente type	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal teeth, trichodystrophy and malformations of the hands and feet. To date, it has been reported in 21 patients and is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
odonto-tricho-ungual-digito-palmar syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal teeth, trichodystrophy and malformations of the hands and feet. To date, it has been reported in 21 patients and is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
klick syndrome	An inherited epidermal disorder with characteristics of palmoplantar keratoderma, linear hyperkeratotic papules on the flexural side of large joints (cord-like distribution around wrists, in antecubital and popliteal folds), hyperkeratotic plaques (on neck, axillae, elbows, wrists, and knees), mild ichthyosiform scaling, and sclerotic constrictions around fingers that present flexural deformities. The disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the POMP gene.
deaf blind hypopigmentation syndrome yemenite type	An exceedingly rare genetic disorder with characteristics of cutaneous pigmentation anomalies, ocular disorders and hearing loss. The syndrome was described in 1990 in two patients from the same Yemenite family. A brother and sister were described as having cutaneous patchy hypo and hyperpigmentation on the trunk and extremities, grey hair, white brows and lashes. Ocular manifestations were microcornea, coloboma and abnormalities of the anterior chamber of the eye. Both patients had severe hearing loss and dental abnormalities. Intelligence was reported to be normal. Their parents were unaffected and possibly consanguineous. The cause of this syndrome has not been determined. The inheritance pattern appears to be autosomal recessive.
congenital alopecia and nail dystrophy with severe functional t-cell immunodeficiency	A rare type of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) with missing functional T-cells. The disease affects growth of the hair and nails. Affected individuals have no scalp hair, eyebrows, or eyelashes and the nails are often ridged, pitted, or abnormally curved. The disease results from mutations in the FOXN1 gene which prevents cells from making any functional FOXN1 protein.
steinfeld syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of holoprosencephaly, predominantly radial limb deficiency (absent thumbs, phocomelia), heart defects, kidney malformations and absence of gallbladder. It has been described in two families (with at least seven affected persons). Variable manifestations include vertebral anomalies, cleft lip/palate, microphthalmia, absent nose, dysplastic ears, hearing loss, colobomas of the iris and retina and/or bifid uvula. Inheritance is likely to be autosomal dominant with variable expressivity.
steinfeld syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of holoprosencephaly, predominantly radial limb deficiency (absent thumbs, phocomelia), heart defects, kidney malformations and absence of gallbladder. It has been described in two families (with at least seven affected persons). Variable manifestations include vertebral anomalies, cleft lip/palate, microphthalmia, absent nose, dysplastic ears, hearing loss, colobomas of the iris and retina and/or bifid uvula. Inheritance is likely to be autosomal dominant with variable expressivity.
stapes ankylosis syndrome without symphalangism	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital conductive deafness due to stapes ankylosis, broad thumbs and first toes and hyperopia. So far, it has been described in multiple members of six families. Other skeletal malformations were also reported including short distal phalanges and syndactyly, but symphalangism is usually absent. Transmission is autosomal dominant and the syndrome is caused by mutations in the NOG gene (17q22).
ankylosis of stapes, hyperopia, broad thumbs, broad first toes, and syndactyly	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital conductive deafness due to stapes ankylosis, broad thumbs and first toes and hyperopia. So far, it has been described in multiple members of six families. Other skeletal malformations were also reported including short distal phalanges and syndactyly, but symphalangism is usually absent. Transmission is autosomal dominant and the syndrome is caused by mutations in the NOG gene (17q22).
karsch-neugebauer syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of split-hand and split-foot deformity and ocular abnormalities mainly a congenital nystagmus. Ten cases from four families have been reported in the literature. In some cases the hands are monodactylous. The affected patients have normal mental development. The condition seems to be autosomal dominant with a relatively high proportion of gonadal mosaicism.
shprintzen omphalocele syndrome	A very rare inherited malformation syndrome with characteristics of omphalocele, scoliosis, mild dysmorphic features (downslanted palpebral fissures, s-shaped eyelids and thin upper lip), laryngeal and pharyngeal hypoplasia and learning disabilities.
omphalocele syndrome shprintzen goldberg type	A very rare inherited malformation syndrome with characteristics of omphalocele, scoliosis, mild dysmorphic features (downslanted palpebral fissures, s-shaped eyelids and thin upper lip), laryngeal and pharyngeal hypoplasia and learning disabilities.
scholte syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, patella luxations, acromicria, hypogonadism, facial dysmorphism (including midface hypoplasia and premature frontotemporal balding). It has been described in three unrelated males.
haspeslagh syndrome	This syndrome has manifestation of short stature, craniofacial anomalies and genital hypoplasia. Intellectual deficit is also found in the majority of cases, sometimes together with pterygia. Less than 20 cases have been described so far. The mode of transmission is likely to be autosomal dominant with incomplete penetrance. The syndrome is caused by unbalanced reciprocal translocations of the distal parts of chromosomes 6q and 9p, leading to partial trisomy of the distal region of chromosome 6q and partial monosomy of the distal region of chromosome 9p.
haspeslagh fryns muelenaere syndrome	This syndrome has manifestation of short stature, craniofacial anomalies and genital hypoplasia. Intellectual deficit is also found in the majority of cases, sometimes together with pterygia. Less than 20 cases have been described so far. The mode of transmission is likely to be autosomal dominant with incomplete penetrance. The syndrome is caused by unbalanced reciprocal translocations of the distal parts of chromosomes 6q and 9p, leading to partial trisomy of the distal region of chromosome 6q and partial monosomy of the distal region of chromosome 9p.
orofaciodigital syndrome thurston type	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
oral-facial-digital syndrome, type v	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 5	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome, thurston type	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
thurston syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
postaxial polydactyly, type b	In postaxial polydactyly type B the extra digit is rudimentary and poorly developed.
cranium bifidum occultum	A developmental defect with manifestation of variable intramembranous ossification defects of the parietal bones, which is asymptomatic, symptomatic or associated with other pathologies. A congenital disorder caused by insufficient ossification around the parietal notch. In most cases this results from heterozygous loss of function mutations in human homeobox genes, MSX2 (5q35.2) and ALX4 (11p11.2), which encode transcription factors involved in skeletal development. Transmission is autosomal dominant with high but incomplete penetrance.
shone's syndrome	A congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the presence of subvalvar left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, coarctation of the aorta, and mitral stenosis.
trichothiodystrophy (disorder)	Autosomal recessive neuroectodermal disorders characterized by brittle sulfur-deficient hair associated with impaired intellect, decreased fertility, and short stature. It may include nail dystrophy, ICHTHYOSIS, and photosensitivity correlated with a NUCLEOTIDE EXCISION REPAIR defect. All individuals with this disorder have a deficiency of cysteine-rich KERATIN-ASSOCIATED PROTEINS found in the interfilamentous matrix. Photosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in at least 2 separate genes: ERCC2 PROTEIN gene and the related ERCC3. Nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in the TTDN1 gene.
trichothiodystrophy syndromes	Autosomal recessive neuroectodermal disorders characterized by brittle sulfur-deficient hair associated with impaired intellect, decreased fertility, and short stature. It may include nail dystrophy, ICHTHYOSIS, and photosensitivity correlated with a NUCLEOTIDE EXCISION REPAIR defect. All individuals with this disorder have a deficiency of cysteine-rich KERATIN-ASSOCIATED PROTEINS found in the interfilamentous matrix. Photosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in at least 2 separate genes: ERCC2 PROTEIN gene and the related ERCC3. Nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in the TTDN1 gene.
chromosome; 4 short arm deletion	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
scrotal hypospadias was observed	Hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
cryptotia (disorder)	Invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin. [PMID:19152421]
tatoo dysplasia	An extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in about 5 patients to date with clinical signs including short stature, peculiar facies with blepharophimosis, upward slanted eyes, abundant eyebrows and eyelashes, coarse voice, and short hands and feet.
fantasy island syndrome	An extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in about 5 patients to date with clinical signs including short stature, peculiar facies with blepharophimosis, upward slanted eyes, abundant eyebrows and eyelashes, coarse voice, and short hands and feet.
renal-hepatic-pancreatic dysplasia	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with the triad of pancreatic fibrosis (and cysts, with a reduction of parenchymal tissue), renal dysplasia (with peripheral cortical cysts, primitive collecting ducts, glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage) and hepatic dysgenesis (enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendency to perilobular fibrosis). Situs abnormalities, skeletal anomalies and anencephaly have also been associated. Patients that survive the neonatal period present renal insufficiency, chronic jaundice and insulin-dependant diabetes.
craniofaciofrontodigital syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of mild intellectual disability, short stature, cardiac anomalies, mild dysmorphic features (macrocephaly, prominent forehead, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), cutis laxa, joint hyperlaxity, wrinkled palms and soles and skeletal anomalies (sella turcica, wide ribs and small vertebral bodies).
birk barel mental retardation dysmorphism syndrome	A rare condition with characteristics of intellectual disability, delayed development of speech and motor skills, hypotonia from birth, lethargy, weak cry, facial weakness, feeding difficulties, failure to thrive. Dysphagia often lasts into adolescence. While muscle tone may improve over time, affected individuals usually have some weakness into adulthood. The weakness can lead to permanent contractures and scoliosis. Also associated with unusual facial features, cleft palate, long neck, narrow chest, tapered fingers. Caused by mutations in the KCNK9 gene, which alter TASK3 channels reducing the flow of ions through the channels and disrupting normal neuron development and excitability. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. About 20 percent of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
gorlin-chaudhry-moss syndrome (disorder)	A rare premature aging syndrome with characteristics of pre and postnatal growth retardation, a congenital premature-aged appearance with distinctive craniofacial dysmorphism (wide calvaria with large open anterior fontanelle and wide metopic suture, broad forehead, small face, micrognathia), markedly diminished subcutaneous fat, cutis laxa and wrinkled skin, without delay in psychomotor development. Scant, brittle hair, hypoplastic nails and delayed, abnormal dentition, as well as hypoplastic distal phalanges, umbilical hernia and eye abnormalities (myopia/hyperopia, strabismus), are also commonly associated.
crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome	A distinct form of Crouzon disease associated with acanthosis nigricans caused by a specific mutation (p.Ala391Glu) in the transmembrane domain of FGFR3. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner with variable penetrance.
lymphedema, atrial septal defect, and characteristic facies	This syndrome is characterised by congenital lymphoedema of the lower limbs, atrial septal defect and a characteristic facies (a round face with a prominent forehead, a flat nasal bridge with a broad nasal tip, epicanthal folds, a thin upper lip and a cleft chin). It has been described in two brothers and a sister. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with pyloric atresia	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterised by generalised severe blistering with widespread congenital absence of skin and pyloric atresia. Prevalence is unknown, but at least 12 families have been reported to date. Onset is at birth and babies are usually born prematurely with a low weight and poor general condition. Most cases are due to mutations in the PLEC gene (8q24) encoding the plectin 1 protein. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
alveolar capillary dysplasia	A rare lethal congenital abnormality that refers to the abnormal development of the capillaries around the alveoli in the lung parenchyma. It manifests as respiratory distress and persistent pulmonary hypertension in infancy.
syndactyly with renal and anogenital malformations	Syndrome with the association of toe syndactyly, facial dysmorphism including telecanthus and a broad nasal tip, urogenital malformations and anal atresia. Around ten cases have been reported so far. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the FAM58A gene (located on the X chromosome) encoding a protein of unknown function.
star syndrome	Syndrome with the association of toe syndactyly, facial dysmorphism including telecanthus and a broad nasal tip, urogenital malformations and anal atresia. Around ten cases have been reported so far. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the FAM58A gene (located on the X chromosome) encoding a protein of unknown function.
mental retardation, severe, and absent nails of hallux and pollex	A rare developmental anomaly syndrome with characteristics of severe intellectual disability and distal hypoplasia of digits, particularly of thumbs and halluces, with nail aplasia or hypoplasia. Facial dysmorphism with a pseudo-myopathic appearance has been reported, which may include high anterior hairline or low frontal hairline with central cowlick, flat forehead, ptosis, hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds, ears with thick helices, broad depressed nasal bridge with anteverted nares, short columella, long philtrum, high-arched palate, broad mouth with thick vermilion border of the upper or the lower lip and downturned corners. Marked hypotonia, seizures and global developmental delay have been reported, associated with autistic spectrum disorder manifestations in some patients.
46,xx sex reversal with dysgenesis of kidneys, adrenals, and lungs	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
sex reversal, female, with dysgenesis of kidneys, adrenals, and lungs	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
sex reversion, kidney, adrenal and lung dysgenesis syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
46,xx sex reversal with dysgenesis of kidneys adrenals and lungs	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
goldblatt syndrome	Odontochondrodysplasia, also called Goldblatt syndrome, is a very rare syndrome associating chondrodysplasia with dentinogenesis imperfecta. To date, 11 patients have been reported. Chondrodysplasia has characteristics of mesomelic limb shortening, joint laxity, platyspondyly with coronal clefts, brachydactyly and coxa valga. The affected patients have no intellectual deficit. The condition is most probably hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
fitzsimmons-mclachlan-gilbert syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, spasticity in the lower limbs (spastic paraplegia), pes cavus deformity of both feet, an abnormal gait, and palmar and plantar hyperkeratosis. It has been reported in four brothers. The mother of the affected boys had normal intelligence, plantar hyperkeratosis and a strong facial resemblance to her retarded sons. Her three daughters were normal. This syndrome most likely an X-linked recessive condition.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 6	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
ofd6	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
oculootodental syndrome	A contiguous gene syndrome comprising otodental syndrome (globodontia and sensorineural high-frequency hearing deficit) associated with eye abnormalities typically including iris and chorioretinal coloboma and sometimes microcornea, microphthalmos, lenticular opacity, lens coloboma and iris pigment epithelial atrophy.
lopez-gutierrez syndrome	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
capillary malformation of the lower lip, lymphatic malformation of face and neck, asymmetry of face and limbs, and partial-generalized overgrowth	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
clapo syndrome	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
clapo (capillary malformation of lower lip, lymphatic malformation of face and neck, asymmetry of face and limbs and overgrowth) syndrome	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
nijmegen breakage syndrome-like disorder	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome characterised by growth retardation, short stature, developmental delay, intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism (severe microcephaly, sloping forehead, prominent eyes, broad nasal ridge, hypoplastic nasal septum, epicanthal folds), spontaneous chromosomal instability, cellular hypersensitivity to ionising radiation and radioresistant DNA synthesis, without severe infections, immunodeficiency or cancer predisposition. Additional reported features include mild spasticity, slight and nonprogressive ataxia, hyperopia, multiple pigmented nevi, widely spaced nipples, and clinodactyly.
macrocephaly, alopecia, cutis laxa, and scoliosis	A very rare inherited connective tissue disorder with characteristics of macrocephaly, sparse scalp hair, soft redundant and hyperextensible skin, joint hypermobility, and scoliosis. Patients have progressive facial coarsening with downslanted palpebral fissures, upper eyelid fullness/infraorbital folds, thick/everted vermillion, gingival overgrowth and abnormal position of the teeth. Rare manifestations such as abnormal high-pitched voice, bronchiectasis, hypergonadotropic hypergonadism and brachydactyly have also been reported. Caused by homozygous mutation in the RIN2 gene on chromosome 20p11.
macs syndrome	A very rare inherited connective tissue disorder with characteristics of macrocephaly, sparse scalp hair, soft redundant and hyperextensible skin, joint hypermobility, and scoliosis. Patients have progressive facial coarsening with downslanted palpebral fissures, upper eyelid fullness/infraorbital folds, thick/everted vermillion, gingival overgrowth and abnormal position of the teeth. Rare manifestations such as abnormal high-pitched voice, bronchiectasis, hypergonadotropic hypergonadism and brachydactyly have also been reported. Caused by homozygous mutation in the RIN2 gene on chromosome 20p11.
leukoencephalopathy, cystic, without megalencephaly	This syndrome has characteristics of non-progressive leukoencephalopathy, bilateral cysts in the anterior part of the temporal lobe, cerebral white matter anomalies and severe psychomotor impairment. Less than 50 patients have been described in the literature so far.
microcephalus facio-cardio-skeletal syndrome hadziselimovic type	A rare syndrome with characteristics of onset growth retardation (low birth weight and short stature), hypotonia, developmental delay and intellectual disability associated with microcephaly and craniofacial (low anterior hairline, hypotelorism, thick lips with carp-shaped mouth, high-arched palate, low-set ears), cardiac (conotruncal heart malformations such as tetralogy of Fallot and skeletal (hypoplastic thumbs and first metacarpals) abnormalities.
microcephaly-faciocardioskeletal syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of onset growth retardation (low birth weight and short stature), hypotonia, developmental delay and intellectual disability associated with microcephaly and craniofacial (low anterior hairline, hypotelorism, thick lips with carp-shaped mouth, high-arched palate, low-set ears), cardiac (conotruncal heart malformations such as tetralogy of Fallot and skeletal (hypoplastic thumbs and first metacarpals) abnormalities.
microcephalus facio-cardio-skeletal syndrome hadziselimovic type (disorder)	A rare syndrome with characteristics of onset growth retardation (low birth weight and short stature), hypotonia, developmental delay and intellectual disability associated with microcephaly and craniofacial (low anterior hairline, hypotelorism, thick lips with carp-shaped mouth, high-arched palate, low-set ears), cardiac (conotruncal heart malformations such as tetralogy of Fallot and skeletal (hypoplastic thumbs and first metacarpals) abnormalities.
clove syndrome	CLOVE syndrome has characteristics of congenital lipomatous overgrowth, progressive, complex and mixed truncal vascular malformations and epidermal nevi. To date, less than 15 cases have been reported in the literature. Patients also present with disproportionate fat distribution. CLOVE syndrome may be associated with varying degrees of scoliosis and enlarged bony structures without progressive bony overgrowth. The presence of scoliosis/skeletal manifestations has led to the suggestion that the acronym CLOVE should be expanded to CLOVES.
pik3ca-related syndrome	CLOVE syndrome has characteristics of congenital lipomatous overgrowth, progressive, complex and mixed truncal vascular malformations and epidermal nevi. To date, less than 15 cases have been reported in the literature. Patients also present with disproportionate fat distribution. CLOVE syndrome may be associated with varying degrees of scoliosis and enlarged bony structures without progressive bony overgrowth. The presence of scoliosis/skeletal manifestations has led to the suggestion that the acronym CLOVE should be expanded to CLOVES.
xp3	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the XPC gene. This disease is characterized by increased sensitivity to sunlight with the development of carcinomas at an early age and is caused by a defect in nucleotide excision repair.
cleft of alveolar ridge (diagnosis)	A gap (cleft) affecting one of the alveolar ridges, which are the protuberances in the mouth that contain the sockets (alveoli) of the teeth. An alveolar cleft can affect all structures of the alveolar ridge, including the gingiva, other mucosa, periosteum, alveolar bone, and teeth. [HPO:mengelstad, HPO:probinson]
humero-radial synostosis	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
humeroradial synostoses	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
corneal hypesthesia with retinal abnormalities, sensorineural deafness, unusual facies, persistent ductus arteriosus, and mental retardation	An extremely rare genetic disorder characterised by corneal anaesthesia, retinal abnormalities, bilateral hearing loss, distinct facies, patent ductus arteriosus, Hirschsprung disease, short stature and intellectual disability. The phenotype is variable. Some affected individuals have only mild disease manifestations. The aetiology of this syndrome is not yet known. Mutations in an as of yet unidentified gene, involved in autonomic nervous system function, are suspected. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, probably with variable expressivity.
mesomelic dysplasia with cleft palate and camptodactyly syndrome	This syndrome manifests with mesomelic shortening and bowing of the limbs, camptodactyly, skin dimpling and cleft palate with retrognathia and mandibular hypoplasia. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
reardon hall slaney syndrome	This syndrome manifests with mesomelic shortening and bowing of the limbs, camptodactyly, skin dimpling and cleft palate with retrognathia and mandibular hypoplasia. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
short stature with webbed neck and congenital heart disease syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature, intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism, short webbed neck, skin changes and congenital heart defects. It has been reported in four Arab Bedouin siblings born to consanguineous parents.
hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia halal type	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of trichodysplasia, with absent eyebrows and eyelashes, onychodysplasia, mild retrognathia, abnormal dermatoglyphics (excess of whorls on fingertips, radial loop on finger, hypothenar pattern), intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating. Additional variable manifestations include high implanted or prominent ears, mild hearing loss, supernumerary nipple, café-au-lait spots, keratosis pilaris, and irregular menses. To date, four individuals from 2 generations of a consanguineous family of Portuguese descent have been described in the literature. Males and females were equally affected. Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, Halal type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
ectodermal dysplasia with skin anomaly and intellectual disability	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of trichodysplasia, with absent eyebrows and eyelashes, onychodysplasia, mild retrognathia, abnormal dermatoglyphics (excess of whorls on fingertips, radial loop on finger, hypothenar pattern), intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating. Additional variable manifestations include high implanted or prominent ears, mild hearing loss, supernumerary nipple, café-au-lait spots, keratosis pilaris, and irregular menses. To date, four individuals from 2 generations of a consanguineous family of Portuguese descent have been described in the literature. Males and females were equally affected. Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, Halal type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
halal setton wang syndrome	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of trichodysplasia, with absent eyebrows and eyelashes, onychodysplasia, mild retrognathia, abnormal dermatoglyphics (excess of whorls on fingertips, radial loop on finger, hypothenar pattern), intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating. Additional variable manifestations include high implanted or prominent ears, mild hearing loss, supernumerary nipple, café-au-lait spots, keratosis pilaris, and irregular menses. To date, four individuals from 2 generations of a consanguineous family of Portuguese descent have been described in the literature. Males and females were equally affected. Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, Halal type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
halal syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by the combination of microcephaly, cleft palate, and variable anomalies such as unusual facial appearance, hypotelorism, abnormal retinal pigmentation, maxillary hypoplasia, goiter, camptodactyly, mild intellectual deficit, and abnormal dermatoglyphics. It has been described only once; in two sisters and their mother. Although microcephaly and intellectual deficit are frequently associated with cleft palate, the other features of these patients are in favour of this syndrome being an entity per se. The mode of inheritance is autosomal or X-linked dominant.
regional choroidal atrophy and alopecia	A very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with the association of choroidal atrophy (sometimes regional), together with other ectodermal dysplasia features including fine and sparse hair, absent or decreased lashes and eyebrows, and possibly mild visual loss and dysplastic/thick/grooved nails.
port-wine stain familial multiple	A rare genetic capillary malformation characterised by dark red to purple birthmarks which manifest as flat, sharply circumscribed cutaneous lesions, typically situated in the head and neck region, in various members of a single family. The lesions grow proportionally with the individual, change in colour and often thicken with age. There is evidence that congenital capillary malformations can be caused by somatic mosaic mutation in the GNAQ gene on chromosome 9q21.
camptodactyly, joint contractures, facial skeletal defects	The association of camptodactyly, multiple eye defects (fibrosis of the medial rectus muscle, severe myopia, ptosis and exophthalmos), scoliosis, flexion contractures and facial anomalies (arched eyebrows, facial asymmetry with an abnormal skull shape, a prominent nose, small mouth, low-set and dysplastic ears, and a low nuchal hairline). Only four cases have been reported in the literature so far. The mode of inheritance remains to be confirmed, but both autosomal dominant and recessive transmission have been considered.
rozin camptodactyly syndrome	The association of camptodactyly, multiple eye defects (fibrosis of the medial rectus muscle, severe myopia, ptosis and exophthalmos), scoliosis, flexion contractures and facial anomalies (arched eyebrows, facial asymmetry with an abnormal skull shape, a prominent nose, small mouth, low-set and dysplastic ears, and a low nuchal hairline). Only four cases have been reported in the literature so far. The mode of inheritance remains to be confirmed, but both autosomal dominant and recessive transmission have been considered.
caudal dysgenesis familial type	A clinical entity that can present as variable anomalies of the caudal pole. It has been described in four siblings and their father's half-sister. The first sibling had aberrant umbilical cord vasculature with a single umbilical artery near the placental insertion. Two of the siblings showed full sirenomelia, one with a complex congenital heart defect. The fourth case had an imperforate anus and an excessively long umbilical cord. The half-sister had an imperforate anus, rectovaginal fistula and genitourinary anomalies. The syndrome appears to be expressed as a dominant trait with reduced penetrance and variable expressivity.
chitayat meunier hodgkinson syndrome	The association of Pierre Robin sequence (retrognathia, cleft palate and glossoptosis), facial dysmorphism (high forehead with frontal bossing) and digital anomalies (tapering fingers, hyper convex nails, clinodactyly of the fifth fingers and short distal phalanges, finger-like thumbs and easily subluxated first metacarpophalangeal joints). Growth and mental development are normal. It has been described in two half brothers born to the same mother. Transmission appears to be X-linked recessive.
epidermolysa bullosa simplex and limb girdle muscular dystrophy	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterized by generalized blistering associated with muscular dystrophy. Onset of blistering is usually as early as birth, muscular dystrophy manifests between infancy and adulthood. Blisters are often hemorrhagic and heal with mild atrophic scarring and rare milia formation. Associated findings comprise markedly dystrophic nails, and focal keratoderma of the palms and soles. Extracutaneous involvement is usually present. Caused by mutations in the PLEC gene (8q24) encoding plectin. Plectin deficiency can be demonstrated in skin and muscle by analysis with specific antibodies. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
hydrolethalus syndrome	A severe fetal malformation syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial dysmorphic features, central nervous system, cardiac, respiratory tract and limb abnormalities. Mostly present in families of Finnish descent. The syndrome also has characteristics of postaxial and preaxial polydactyly. Caused by mutations in HYLS1 (11q24.2) and KIF7 (15q26.1). Inheritance is autosomal recessive. Stillbirth or neonatal death is the rule, although rare cases with several months' survival have been reported.
delayed speech and facial asymmetry with strabismus and ear lobe skin crease syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is extremely rare and has characteristics of delayed speech development, mild facial asymmetry, strabismus and transverse ear lobe creases. To date, six cases have been reported in five families. Dysmorphic features include asymmetrical face, unilateral narrow palpebral fissure, divergent strabismus, long philtrum, high-arched palate, apparently low-set ears and transverse ear lobe creases on both sides. Delayed language development is constant but intellectual development can be normal. In one family, the transmission was compatible with either autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inheritance.
microcephalus with cardiac defect and lung malsegmentation syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome with the combination of microcephaly, heart defects, renal hypoplasia, lung segmentation defects and cleft palate. It has been described in three female siblings. Dysmorphic features were not characteristic. The condition seems to be hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor and all children died in infancy.
dysharmonic skeletal maturation muscular fibre disproportion	This syndrome is characterized principally by non-progressive central hypotonia, chronic constipation, severe psychomotor retardation, abnormal dermatoglyphics, dysharmonic skeletal maturation and disproportionate muscle fibers. Seizures or an abnormal electroencephalograph were also reported. To date, the syndrome has been reported in three unrelated Puerto Rican boys.
qazi markouizos syndrome	This syndrome is characterized principally by non-progressive central hypotonia, chronic constipation, severe psychomotor retardation, abnormal dermatoglyphics, dysharmonic skeletal maturation and disproportionate muscle fibers. Seizures or an abnormal electroencephalograph were also reported. To date, the syndrome has been reported in three unrelated Puerto Rican boys.
microcephaly with brachydactyly and kyphoscoliosis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of profound intellectual deficit in association with microcephaly, short stature, brachydactyly type D, a flattened occiput, downslanting palpebral fissures, low-set large ears, a broad prominent nose and kyphoscoliosis. It has been described in three sisters. The disorder is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
waaler aarskog syndrome	This syndrome has principal characteristics of by Sprengel anomaly (upward displacement of the scapula) and hydrocephaly. Other anomalies such as psychomotor retardation, psychosis, brachydactyly and costovertebral dysplasia may also be present. The syndrome has been described in eight female patients. The mode of transmission has not been firmly established but appears to be either autosomal or X-linked dominant.
potter sequence cleft lip and palate cardiopathy syndrome (disorder)	Thomas syndrome has characteristics of renal anomalies, cardiac malformations and cleft lip or palate. It has been described in six patients. Transmission was suggested to be autosomal recessive.
cerebro-acro-visceral early lethality multiplex syndrome	A rare association of malformations described in only three patients including two siblings. The first patient had profound intellectual deficit and clinical features including short stature, coarse face, deep-set eyes, microphthalmia, large ears, gynoid obesity, imperforate anus, sacral spina bifida, pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias, persistence of Mullerian structures, and low gonadotrophin levels. His XY sibling was raised as a girl, was slightly mentally impaired and had microphthalmia and large ears and short stature. The third patient had severe hearing loss, ocular colobomata, hypogonadism of central origin, distinct craniofacial features and skeletal anomalies with cervical spina bifida, hyperkyphosis and thoracic deformity. All patients had a normal 46, XY karyotype. Inheritance could be either autosomal recessive or X-linked.
say barber miller syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of unusual facial features, microcephaly, developmental delay, and severe postnatal growth retardation. It has been reported in two brothers born to normal parents. Additional features include hypogonadism, flexion contractures, hypoplastic patella, scoliosis, eczema and recurrent infections. The characteristic facies were marked by sloping forehead, beaked nose, large protruding ears and micrognathia. Low levels of serum gammaglobulins and defective chemotaxis were detected in both boys during infancy.
schisis association syndrome (disorder)	Describes the combination of two or more of the following anomalies: neural tube defects (e.g. anencephaly, encephalocele, spina bifida cystica), cleft lip and palate, omphalocele and congenital diaphragmatic hernia . These anomalies are associated at a higher frequency than would be expected with random combination rates.
male hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, intellectual disability, skeletal anomaly syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, intellectual deficit, and congenital skeletal anomalies involving the cervical spine and superior ribs, and diabetes mellitus. It has been described in two brothers. Testicular biopsy revealed germinal aplasia and complete seminiferous tubular fibrosis.
distal myopathy welander type (diagnosis)	A distal myopathy with characteristics of weakness in the distal upper extremities usually finger and wrist extensors which later progresses to all hand muscles and distal lower extremities primarily in toe and ankle extensors. This disease is mainly restricted to a geographical area around the Baltic Sea and is a late adult-onset disorder. Caused by a missense change (c.1362G>A; p.E384K) in TIA1 gene (2p13) which encodes nucleolysin TIA-1 isoform p40, a key component of stress granules. Inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
pancreatic hypoplasia, diabetes mellitus, congenital heart disease syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of partial pancreatic agenesis, diabetes mellitus, and heart anomalies (including transposition of the great vessels, ventricular or atrial septal defects, pulmonary stenosis, or patent ductus arteriosis). It has been described in one Japanese family, in which the mother and at least two of her four children were affected (another two children died shortly after birth). The syndrome appears to be inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
heart-hand syndrome 2	An extremely rare type of heart-hand syndrome. Described in two families to date, with characteristics of upper limb malformations (brachytelephalangy type D, hypoplastic deltoids, mild shortening of the fourth and fifth metacarpals in some individuals, skeletal anomalies in the humerus, radius, ulnae, and thenar bones) and cardiac arrhythmias (junctional rhythms and atrial fibrillation).
congenital cataract with intellectual disability and anal atresia and urinary defect syndrome	This syndrome has main feature of congenital cataracts with squint, intellectual deficit, anomalies of the genitourinary tract (rectovesical fistula, micropenis, undescended testis, and hypospadias), imperforate anus and other anomalies. It has been described in three siblings born to nonconsanguineous parents. It is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
arachnodactyly with abnormal ossification and intellectual disability syndrome	A multiple congenital developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of arachnodactyly of fingers and toes associated with craniofacial dysmorphism (including abnormal cranial ossification, frontal bossing, flat calvaria, shallow deformed orbits resulting in exophthalmos, midface hypoplasia and micrognathia), feeding difficulties in infancy, infantile muscular hypotonia, and developmental delay leading to intellectual disability.
kousseff syndrome	Syndrome that is characterised by the association of conotruncal heart defects, myelomeningocoele and craniofacial dysmorphism similar to that seen in monosomy 22q11. Only five cases have been reported in the literature. The identification, by FISH, of 22q11.2 deletions in the majority of reported cases (including the original cases described by Kousseff) indicated that this syndrome is part of the variable clinical spectrum of monosomy 22q11. However, the absence of a 22q11.2 deletion in one patient suggests Kousseff syndrome to be a causally heterogeneous disorder.
forney robinson pascoe syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of mitral insufficiency, conductive deafness, short stature, and skeletal anomalies (bony fusion involving the cervical vertebrae, the ossicles and the carpal and tarsal bones). It has been described in three members of one family. The mode of inheritance is likely to be autosomal dominant with incomplete penetrance.
neurofibromatosis with noonan phenotype	A variant of neurofibromatosis type 1 characterised by the combination of features of neurofibromatosis type 1, such as café-au-lait spots, iris Lisch nodules, axillary and inguinal freckling, optic nerve glioma and multiple neurofibromas; and Noonan syndrome, with features such as short stature, typical facial features, congenital heart defects and unusual pectus deformity.
neurofibromatosis-noonan syndrome	A variant of neurofibromatosis type 1 characterised by the combination of features of neurofibromatosis type 1, such as café-au-lait spots, iris Lisch nodules, axillary and inguinal freckling, optic nerve glioma and multiple neurofibromas; and Noonan syndrome, with features such as short stature, typical facial features, congenital heart defects and unusual pectus deformity.
trichodermodysplasia and dental alterations syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of sparse, thin brittle scalp hair as well as sparse eyebrows, eyelashes, axillary and pubic hair, delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions. Mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots on back, mild dystrophy of nails and tibial deflection of toes are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
pinheiro freire-maia miranda syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of sparse, thin brittle scalp hair as well as sparse eyebrows, eyelashes, axillary and pubic hair, delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions. Mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots on back, mild dystrophy of nails and tibial deflection of toes are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
trichodermodysplasia with dental alterations	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of sparse, thin brittle scalp hair as well as sparse eyebrows, eyelashes, axillary and pubic hair, delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions. Mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots on back, mild dystrophy of nails and tibial deflection of toes are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
zlotogora-ogur syndrome	A very rare genetic disorder characterized by cleft lip and palate, sparse scalp hair, and partial syndactyly of the fingers and toes.
stern lubinsky durrie syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of corneal epithelial changes (associated with photophobia and burning and watering of the eyes), diffuse palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, distal onycholysis, brachydactyly, short stature, dental problems and premature birth. It has been described in seven individuals from three generations of one family. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
stoelinga de koomen davis syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of multiple unerupted permanent teeth, hypoplasia of the alveolar process and of the maxillo-zygomatic region, severe genu valgum and deformed ears. Consanguinity in the family suggested autosomal recessive inheritance.
non erupted teeth with maxillary hypoplasia and genu valgum	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of multiple unerupted permanent teeth, hypoplasia of the alveolar process and of the maxillo-zygomatic region, severe genu valgum and deformed ears. Consanguinity in the family suggested autosomal recessive inheritance.
x-linked intellectual disability with plagiocephaly syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, brachycephaly, plagiocephaly, prominent forehead and coarse facial features. It has been described in two males from one family. Two females belonging to the same family displayed moderate intellectual deficit but no craniofacial dysmorphism.
seaver cassidy syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, telecanthus, downslanting palpebral fissures, ptosis, malar hypoplasia, broad nasal bridge, thin upper lip, smooth philtrum, and low-set prominent ears) and associated with joint anomalies (genu valgum or cubitus valgus, hyper-extensible joints). It has been described in two patients (a mother and her son). The boy also had hypoplastic shawl scrotum and cryptorchidism, and the mother had mild intellectual deficit.
seaver cassidy syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, telecanthus, downslanting palpebral fissures, ptosis, malar hypoplasia, broad nasal bridge, thin upper lip, smooth philtrum, and low-set prominent ears) and associated with joint anomalies (genu valgum or cubitus valgus, hyper-extensible joints). It has been described in two patients (a mother and her son). The boy also had hypoplastic shawl scrotum and cryptorchidism, and the mother had mild intellectual deficit.
intellectual disability, polydactyly, uncombable hair syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of intellectual disability, postaxial polydactyly, phalangeal hypoplasia, 2-3 toe syndactyly, uncombable hair and facial dysmorphism (including frontal bossing, hypotelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, nasal bridge and lips, prominent nasal root, large abnormal ears with prominent antihelix, poorly folded helix, underdeveloped lobule and antitragus, and micrognathia evolving into prognathism). Cryptorchidism, conductive hearing loss and progressive thoracic kyphosis were also reported.
kozlowski krajewska syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of intellectual disability, postaxial polydactyly, phalangeal hypoplasia, 2-3 toe syndactyly, uncombable hair and facial dysmorphism (including frontal bossing, hypotelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, nasal bridge and lips, prominent nasal root, large abnormal ears with prominent antihelix, poorly folded helix, underdeveloped lobule and antitragus, and micrognathia evolving into prognathism). Cryptorchidism, conductive hearing loss and progressive thoracic kyphosis were also reported.
telecanthus, hypertelorism, strabismus, pes cavus syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of telecanthus, hypertelorism, strabismus, pes cavus and other variable anomalies. It has been described in a father and his son. The son also had hypospadias, bilateral inguinal hernia, clinodactyly and camptodactyly of the fingers. Radiographic findings including flared metaphyses of the long bones and osteopenia.
epilepsy, microcephaly, skeletal dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of moderate to severe intellectual deficit, microcephaly, epilepsy, coarse face, hirsutism and skeletal abnormalities (scoliosis and retarded bone development). It has been described only once, in two siblings (one male and one female). This syndrome is likely to be an autosomal recessive condition and thus parents should be informed of a 25% risk of recurrence for other children.
lynch lee murday syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of caudal appendage, short terminal phalanges, deafness, cryptorchidism, intellectual deficit, short stature and dysmorphism. It has been described in monozygotic twin boys.
russell weaver bull syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of congenital manifestations of both oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum and caudal regression sequence. Phenotype is highly variable but patients typically present facial dysmorphism (including asymmetry, hypertelorism), auricular abnormalities (for example preauricular tags, microtia, absence of middle ear ossicles), skeletal malformations (hemivertebrae, hip dislocation, sacral agenesis/dysplasia, talipes equinovarus, flexion deformity of lower limbs), cardiac defects (dextrocardia, septal defects), renal and genitourinary anomalies (such as renal agenesis/dysplasia, abnormal external genitalia) along with anal anomalies such as anal atresia and rectovesical fistula.
deafness, genital anomaly, metacarpal and metatarsal synostosis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of sensorineural deafness, bilateral synostosis of the fourth and fifth metacarpals and metatarsals, genital anomalies (hypospadias in males), psychomotor delay and abnormal dermatoglyphics. So far, it has been described in two unrelated patients. Facial dysmorphism was noted in both patients (prominent forehead, ear anomalies, facial asymmetry and an open mouth appearance).
pfeiffer kapferer syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of sensorineural deafness, bilateral synostosis of the fourth and fifth metacarpals and metatarsals, genital anomalies (hypospadias in males), psychomotor delay and abnormal dermatoglyphics. So far, it has been described in two unrelated patients. Facial dysmorphism was noted in both patients (prominent forehead, ear anomalies, facial asymmetry and an open mouth appearance).
fronto-facio-nasal dysplasia	Rare disorder with features of multiple craniofacial anomalies; brachycephaly, blepharophimosis, ptosis, S-shaped palpebral fissures, coloboma, cleft lip and palate, deformed nostrils, encephalocele, hypertelorism, midface hypoplasia, malformed eyes, and absent inner eyelashes. The syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
ehlers-danlos syndrome with progeroid facies and mild mental retardation	This syndrome has characteristics of major seizures, dysmorphic features (round face, bulbous nose, wide mouth, prominent philtrum), pes planus, psychomotor retardation and obesity. It has been described in five children (three boys and two girls, one of whom died in infancy) from two unrelated Mexican families.
ladda zonana ramer syndrome	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of severe arthrogryposis, multiple ectodermal dysplasia features, cleft lip/palate, facial dysmorphism, growth deficiency and a moderate delay of psychomotor development. Ectodermal dysplasia manifestations include sparse, brittle and hypopigmented hair, xerosis, multiple nevi, small conical shaped teeth and hypodontia, and facial dysmorphism with blepharophimosis, deep-set eyes and micrognathia.
congenital contractures, ectodermal dysplasia, cleft lip-palate, and developmental impairment	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of severe arthrogryposis, multiple ectodermal dysplasia features, cleft lip/palate, facial dysmorphism, growth deficiency and a moderate delay of psychomotor development. Ectodermal dysplasia manifestations include sparse, brittle and hypopigmented hair, xerosis, multiple nevi, small conical shaped teeth and hypodontia, and facial dysmorphism with blepharophimosis, deep-set eyes and micrognathia.
cleft lip, cleft palate, characteristic facies, intestinal malrotation, and lethal congenital heart disease	A multiple congenital anomaly syndrome described in 5 patients to date. Characteristics include flat face, hypertelorism, flat occiput, upward slanting palpebral fissures, cleft palate, micrognathia, short neck, and severe congenital heart defects, which were lethal in 3 of the 5 patients. Malrotation of the intestine, bilateral clinodactyly, bilobed tongue, short fourth metatarsals and bifid thumbs were reported in individual cases. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
radioulnar synostosis with developmental delay and hypotonia syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare syndrome with synostosis described in about 4 patients to date with clinical manifestations including congenital unilateral radioulnar synostosis, generalised hypotonia, developmental delay and dysmorphic facial features (long face, prominent nose and ears).
cleft lip retinopathy syndrome (disorder)	An exceedingly rare association with characteristics of cleft lip and progressive retinopathy.
congenital anomaly of vein, nos	A vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover. A venous malformation may present as a blue patch on the skin ranging to a soft blue mass. Venous malformations are easily compressible and usually swell in thewhen venous pressure increases (e.g., when held in a dependent position or when a child cries). They may be relatively localized or quite extensive within an anatomic region. [HPO:probinson]
fetal alcohol spectrum disorder	A group of disorders caused by a prenatal exposure to maternal consumption of alcohol leading to a range of behavioral, cognitive and neurological deficits in the offspring. It is characterized by physical growth problems, distinct facies, and varying psycho-neurological issues.
warsaw breakage syndrome (disorder)	A condition with multiple abnormalities including mild to severe intellectual disability, impaired growth from birth leading to short stature, and microcephaly. Affected individuals may also have distinctive facial features (including a small forehead, a short nose, a small lower jaw, a flat area between the nose and mouth (philtrum), and prominent cheeks), sensorineural hearing loss, and heart malformations
rildbc	An inherited disorder with characteristics of widespread calcifications of the basal ganglia and cortex, developmental delay, small stature, retinopathy and microcephaly. The absence of progressive deterioration of the neurological functions is characteristic of the disease. The syndrome has been described in eight children from two interrelated families. The disorder is associated with a genetic locus on chromosome 2 and transmission is autosomal recessive.
mdn (mammary digital nail) syndrome	A syndromic limb malformation characterised by congenital onychodystrophy/anonychia, brachydactyly of the fifth finger, digitalisation of the thumbs, with absence or hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the hands and feet in association with juvenile hypertrophy of the breast with gigantomastia in peripubertal females.
tracheal origin of right upper lobe bronchus	Accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus. [ORCID:0000-0002-4095-8489, PMID:11158647, PMID:19332762]
subarterial ventricular septal defect (disorder)	A ventricular septal defect that lies beneath the semilunar valve(s) in the conal or outlet septum. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:10798413]
osteopetrosis, autosomal dominant 2	A sclerosing disorder of the skeleton with increased bone density that classically displays the radiographic sign of ''sandwich vertebrae'' (dense bands of sclerosis parallel to the vertebral endplates). Onset of the disease is typically in late childhood or adolescence. The main manifestations are confined to the skeleton, including fractures, scoliosis, hip osteoarthritis and osteomyelitis, particularly affecting the mandible in association with dental abscess or caries. The disease is caused by heterozygous mutations in the chloride channel 7 (ClCN7) gene (16p13).
supernumerary deciduous mandibular left lateral incisor tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular left lateral incisor tooth; Universal designation NS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular left first molar tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular left first molar tooth; Universal designation LS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular right central incisor tooth (disorder)	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular right central incisor tooth; Universal designation PS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular right lateral incisor tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular right lateral incisor tooth; Universal designation QS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular left canine tooth (morphologic abnormality)	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular left canine tooth; Universal designation MS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular right canine tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular right canine tooth; Universal designation RS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular right first molar tooth (morphologic abnormality)	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular right first molar tooth; Universal designation SS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular left second molar tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular left second molar tooth ; Universal designation KS</p>
supernumerary tooth ts	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular right second molar tooth; Universal designation TS</p>
supernumerary deciduous mandibular left central incisor tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous mandibular left central incisor tooth; Universal designation OS</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary left lateral incisor tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary left lateral incisor tooth; Universal designation GS</p>
universal designation ds	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary right lateral incisor tooth; Universal designation DS</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary right canine tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary right canine tooth; Universal designation CS</p>
supernumerary tooth es	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary right central incisor tooth; Universal designation ES</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary left second molar tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary left second molar tooth; Universal designation JS</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary right first molar tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary right first molar tooth; Universal designation BS</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary left first molar tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary left first molar tooth; Universal designation IS</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary right second molar tooth (disorder)	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary right second molar tooth; Universal designation AS</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary left central incisor tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary left central incisor tooth; Universal designation FS</p>
supernumerary deciduous maxillary left canine tooth	<p>Supernumerary deciduous maxillary left canine tooth; Universal designation HS</p>
waardenburg syndrome	rare, autosomal dominant disease with variable penetrance and several known clinical subtypes; characteristics may include depigmentation of the hair and skin, congenital deafness, heterochromia iridis, medial eyebrow hyperplasia, hypertrophy of the nasal root, and especially dystopia canthorum; the underlying cause may be defective development of the neural crest (neurocristopathy); may be closely related to piebaldism; Klein-Waardenburg Syndrome refers to a disorder that also includes upper limb abnormalities.
edict syndrome	A very rare eye disorder representing a constellation of autosomal dominantly inherited ocular findings, including early-onset or congenital cataracts, corneal stromal thinning, early-onset keratoconus, corneal endothelial dystrophy and iris hypoplasia. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MIR184 gene on chromosome 15q25.
zaki-gleeson syndrome	A rare genetic congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome characterized by growth failure, global developmental delay, profound intellectual disability, autistic behavior, acquired second-degree heart block with bradycardia and vasomotor instability. Hands and feet present with long fusiform fingers, campto-clinodactyly and crowded toes while craniofacial dysmorphism includes microcephaly, broad forehead, thin eyebrows, upslanting palpebral fissures, large ears with prominent antihelix, prominent nose, long philtrum, thin upper lip vermillion and prominent lower lip. Neurological signs include hypotonia, brisk reflexes, dystonic-like movements and truncal ataxia and imaging shows cerebellar hypoplasia and simplified gyral pattern.
acrorenal syndrome	Acrorenal syndrome comprises a wide spectrum of congenital malformation disorders with characteristics of the co-occurrence of distal limb anomalies (usually bilateral cleft feet and/or hands) and renal defects (for example unilateral or bilateral agenesis), that can be associated with a variety of other anomalies such as those of genitourinary tract, abdominal well defects, intestinal atresia and lung malformations. Familial cases have been reported in which an autosomal recessive inheritance was suspected.
acrocephalopolydactylous dysplasia	An extremely rare lethal autosomal recessive disorder characterised by massive birth weight, swollen globular body, generalised oedema, short limbs, postaxial polydactyly, thick skin, facial dysmorphism, excessive connective tissue, renal dysplasia, and in some patients, organomegaly, craniosynostosis with acrocephaly, omphalocele, cleft palate, and cryptorchidism. Fewer than 10 cases have been reported to date.
elejalde syndrome	An extremely rare lethal autosomal recessive disorder characterised by massive birth weight, swollen globular body, generalised oedema, short limbs, postaxial polydactyly, thick skin, facial dysmorphism, excessive connective tissue, renal dysplasia, and in some patients, organomegaly, craniosynostosis with acrocephaly, omphalocele, cleft palate, and cryptorchidism. Fewer than 10 cases have been reported to date.
trichoodontoonychial dysplasia with bone deficiency in frontoparietal region	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by severe generalized hypotrichosis, parietal alopecia, secondary anodontia resulting from enamel hypoplasia, onychodystrophy, bone deficiency in the frontoparietal region and skin manifestations (including nevus pigmentosus, papules, ephelides, palmoplantar keratosis, supernumerary nipples, abnormal dermatoglyphics). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1983.
trichoodontoonychial dysplasia (disorder)	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterized by severe generalized hypotrichosis, parietal alopecia, secondary anodontia resulting from enamel hypoplasia, onychodystrophy, bone deficiency in the frontoparietal region and skin manifestations (including nevus pigmentosus, papules, ephelides, palmoplantar keratosis, supernumerary nipples, abnormal dermatoglyphics). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1983.
bresheck syndrome	X-linked mental retardation with characteristics of Brain anomalies, severe mental Retardation, Ectodermal dysplasia, Skeletal deformities (vertebral anomalies, scoliosis, polydactyly), Ear/eye anomalies (maldevelopment, small optic nerves, low set and large ears with hearing loss) and Kidney dysplasia/hypoplasia (giving the acronym BRESEK syndrome). It has been described in two brothers, one of whom died shortly after birth. One of the brothers also had Hirschsprung disease and Cleft palate/cryptorchidism (giving the acronym: BRESHECK syndrome). Transmission is X-linked dominant.
d-loop transposition of the great arteries	A type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA) in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the right of the pulmonary artery. This is the most common kind of TGA. [PMID:25082585]
anomalous origin of left common carotid artery from innominate artery	The left common carotid artery normally originates from the aortic arch. This term refers to an origin of this artery from the brachiocephalic artery. [PMID:18694519]
lumbar meningomyelocele (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in the lumbar region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
sotos2	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by moderate postnatal overgrowth, macrocephaly, craniofacial dysmorphism (including high forehead and anterior hairline, downslanting palpebral fissures, prominent chin), developmental delay, and intellectual disability. Additional variable manifestations include unusual behavior, with or without autistic traits, as well as ocular (e.g. strabismus, nystagmus, optic disc pallor/hypoplasia), gastrointestinal (e.g. vomiting, chronic diarrhea, constipation), musculoskeletal (e.g. scoliosis and pectus excavatum), hand/foot (e.g. long, tapered fingers) and central nervous system (e.g. slightly enlarged ventricles) anomalies. The disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the NFIX gene on chromosome 19p13.
tyshchenko syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of distinctive facial appearance (low frontal hairline, bilateral ptosis, prominent eyes, flat midface, broad, ﬂat nares, Cupid's bow upper lip vermilion and small, low-set, posteriorly rotated ears), cleft palate, conductive hearing loss, heart defects (atrial or ventricular septal defect) and mild developmental delay/intellectual disability.
facial dysmorphism, conductive hearing loss, heart defect syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of distinctive facial appearance (low frontal hairline, bilateral ptosis, prominent eyes, flat midface, broad, ﬂat nares, Cupid's bow upper lip vermilion and small, low-set, posteriorly rotated ears), cleft palate, conductive hearing loss, heart defects (atrial or ventricular septal defect) and mild developmental delay/intellectual disability.
congenital anomaly of cardiovascular system (diagnosis)	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
hypocalcification of enamel of teeth	A decreased amount of enamel mineralization. Hypomineralized enamel has a brown discoloration and brittle aspect. [HPO:probinson, PMID:31468724]
ocular skeletal dysplasia	An inherited syndrome of skeletal and retinal malformations with early blindness as well as cataracts and retinal detachment.
chromosome xq28 trisomy (disorder)	Las duplicaciones distales deXq se refieren a trastornos cromosómicos producidos por el compromiso del brazo largo del cromosoma X (Xq). Las manifestaciones clínicas varían ampliamente según el género del paciente y el contenido genético del segmento duplicado. Las duplicaciones distales informadas con mayor frecuencia afectan al segmento Xq28 y producen un fenotipo que incluye características faciales distintivas, hipotonía axial mayor, retraso del desarrollo severo, dificultades alimentarias severas, genitales anormales y susceptibilidad a las infecciones. Las duplicaciones Xq pueden ser causadas por una duplicación intracromosómica o por una translocación X/Y o X/autosoma desbalanceada.
palmoplantar keratoderma nagashima type (disorder)	This disease is a non-syndromic diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma resembling a mild form of mal de Meleda. So far, it has been described in 20 individuals.Transmission is autosomal recessive. Evidence suggests this disease is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the SERPINB7 gene on chromosome 18q21.
diabetic embryopathy	A condition in which the offspring of a mother with diabetes predating pregnancy develops congenital malformations that can affect multiple organ systems including the brain and spinal cord, the heart and major vessels, the kidneys, the gut, and skeletal structures.
complex craniosynostosis	Nonsyndromic premature fusion of multiple sutures.
lstv - lumbosacral transitional vertebra	Condition with either the sacralization of the lowest lumbar segment or the lumbarization of the most superior sacral segment of the spine.
congenital positive ulnar variant of wrist (disorder)	Condition where the ulna projects more distally relative to the radius.
acinar dysplasia	Arrest of lung development in the pseudoglandular stage (weeks 8 to 16 of human gestation) resulting in small sized lungs, predominantly composed of bronchial and bronchiolar structures embedded in abundant loose mesenchyme that is poorly vascularized. Acinar structures are essentially absent, with no significant formation of saccules and no alveoli. [PMID:31151956, PMID:31189067]
amelogenesis imperfecta and gingival hyperplasia syndrome (disorder)	Associates gingival fibromatosis with dental abnormalities including generalised thin hypoplastic amelogenesis imperfecta, intrapulpal calcifications and delay of tooth eruption.
postaxial polydactyly type a	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand with a complete extra finger and extra metacarpal. [HPO:probinson]
german syndrome	German syndrome is an autosomal recessive arthrogryposis syndrome, described in 5 cases. Three of the four known families with affected children were Ashkenazi Jews. German syndrome is characterized by arthrogryposis, hypotonia-hypokinesia sequence, and lymphedema. Patients present distinct craniofacial appearance (tall forehead and ''carp'' shaped mouth, cleft palate), contractures, and severe hypotonia manifesting as motor delay and swallowing difficulties. The disease has a severe morbidity and mortality rate and survivors present a small stature, hypotonia, frequent upper respiratory infections and psychomotor delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
german syndrome (disorder)	German syndrome is an autosomal recessive arthrogryposis syndrome, described in 5 cases. Three of the four known families with affected children were Ashkenazi Jews. German syndrome is characterized by arthrogryposis, hypotonia-hypokinesia sequence, and lymphedema. Patients present distinct craniofacial appearance (tall forehead and ''carp'' shaped mouth, cleft palate), contractures, and severe hypotonia manifesting as motor delay and swallowing difficulties. The disease has a severe morbidity and mortality rate and survivors present a small stature, hypotonia, frequent upper respiratory infections and psychomotor delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
hvdas	Syndrome with a wide variety of signs and symptoms, hallmark features are intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder, distinctive facial features and abnormalities of multiple body systems. Present in some cases are hypotonia, feeding difficulties in infancy, gastroesophageal reflux, vomiting, and constipation. Other features include obesity, seizures, and heart abnormalities. Caused by mutations in the ADNP gene, the protein produced from this gene helps control expression of other genes through chromatin remodeling. Disturbance of this process alters the activity of many genes and disrupts development or function of several of the body's tissues and organs, including the brain. The syndrome results from de novo mutations in the ADNP gene and is not inherited.
tatton-brown-rahman syndrome	A disease associated with faster than normal growth before and after birth, intellectual disability, characteristic facial features including round face, thick horizontal eyebrows, narrowed palpebral fissures. Macrocephaly may also be present along with features of autism spectrum disorder. Other associated signs include kyphoscoliosis, heart defects, pes planus, hypotonia, hypermobile joints depression, anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder. Caused by mutation in the DNMT3A gene, which provides instructions for making the enzyme DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, however some cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
cerebellar ataxia, intellectual disability, oculomotor apraxia, cerebellar cysts syndrome (disorder)	A rare neuro-ophthalmological disease with characteristics of nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia, delayed motor and language development and intellectual disability in addition to ophthalmological abnormalities (e.g. oculomotor apraxia, strabismus, amblyopia, retinal dystrophy and myopia). Cerebellar cysts, cerebellar dysplasia and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, seen on magnetic resonance imaging, are also characteristic of the disease. Caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the LAMA1 gene on chromosome 18p11.
nail and tooth abnormalities, marginal palmoplantar keratoderma, oral hyperpigmentation syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by short stature, nail dystrophy and/or nail loss, oral mucosa and/or tongue hyperpigmentation, dentition abnormalities (delayed teeth eruption, hypodontia, enamel hypoplasia), keratoderma on the margins of the palms and soles and focal hyperkeratosis on the dorsum of the hands and feet. Additionally, dysphagia with oesophageal strictures, sensorineural deafness, bronchial asthma and severe iron-deficiency anaemia have also been observed.
nail and tooth abnormalities, marginal palmoplantar keratoderma, oral hyperpigmentation syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by short stature, nail dystrophy and/or nail loss, oral mucosa and/or tongue hyperpigmentation, dentition abnormalities (delayed teeth eruption, hypodontia, enamel hypoplasia), keratoderma on the margins of the palms and soles and focal hyperkeratosis on the dorsum of the hands and feet. Additionally, dysphagia with oesophageal strictures, sensorineural deafness, bronchial asthma and severe iron-deficiency anaemia have also been observed.
neonatal marfan syndrome	A rare severe and life-threatening genetic disease occurring during the neonatal period. The disease has characteristics of classical Marfan syndrome manifestations in addition to facial dysmorphism (megalocornea, iridodonesis, ectopia lentis, crumpled ears, loose redundant skin giving a 'senile' facial appearance), flexion joint contractures, pulmonary emphysema and a severe, rapidly progressive cardiovascular disease (including ascending aortic dilatation and severe mitral and/or tricuspid valve insufficiency). Additionally, skeletal manifestations (arachnodactyly, dolichostenomelia, pectus deformities) are also associated.
neonatal marfan syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare severe and life-threatening genetic disease occurring during the neonatal period. The disease has characteristics of classical Marfan syndrome manifestations in addition to facial dysmorphism (megalocornea, iridodonesis, ectopia lentis, crumpled ears, loose redundant skin giving a 'senile' facial appearance), flexion joint contractures, pulmonary emphysema and a severe, rapidly progressive cardiovascular disease (including ascending aortic dilatation and severe mitral and/or tricuspid valve insufficiency). Additionally, skeletal manifestations (arachnodactyly, dolichostenomelia, pectus deformities) are also associated.
congenital conductive hearing loss	A type of conductive deafness with congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
atrioventricular canal defect, partial	A specific combination of heart defects including a primum atrial septal defect and cleft anterior mitral valve leaflet. There is not an inlet ventricular septal defect present. There are two valve annuluses and two valve orifices. [DDD:dbrown]
partial defect of atrioventricular canal	A specific combination of heart defects including a primum atrial septal defect and cleft anterior mitral valve leaflet. There is not an inlet ventricular septal defect present. There are two valve annuluses and two valve orifices. [DDD:dbrown]
unilateral polymicrogyria	Excessive number of small gyri (convolutions) on the surface of one side of the brain. [HPO:probinson]
diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma of thost-unna (disorder)	An autosomally dominant inherited form of palmoplantar keratoderma that is characterized by a non-gradient diffuse pattern and often, hyperhidrosis of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It does not extend beyond the palms, knucklels pads, nails, and the soles.
psis	A syndrome characterized by hypoplastic or aplastic anterior pituitary gland, a very thin or interrupted pituitary stalk, and ectopic or absent posterior pituitary gland, which may be associated with mutation(s) in the HESX1 or LHX4 genes.
trisomy 10p	A syndrome of mental retardation/multiple congenital malformations that is caused by the total or partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 10. Around 50 cases have been described in the literature. The anomalies are present at birth. Children are usually dolichocephalic with a high and prominent forehead, contrasting with a small face. Osteoarticular anomalies are frequent, including ligament hyperlaxity, flexion deformations of limbs, and club feet. Cardiac, renal, ocular and bone malformations have been reported. The majority of cases are a result of the malsegregation of a familial balanced translocation. The most frequent break point is located at the level of p11 band, but it can be more distal and result in partial trisomy.
trisomy 10p (diagnosis)	A syndrome of mental retardation/multiple congenital malformations that is caused by the total or partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 10. Around 50 cases have been described in the literature. The anomalies are present at birth. Children are usually dolichocephalic with a high and prominent forehead, contrasting with a small face. Osteoarticular anomalies are frequent, including ligament hyperlaxity, flexion deformations of limbs, and club feet. Cardiac, renal, ocular and bone malformations have been reported. The majority of cases are a result of the malsegregation of a familial balanced translocation. The most frequent break point is located at the level of p11 band, but it can be more distal and result in partial trisomy.
cognitive impairment, coarse facies, heart defects, obesity, pulmonary involvement, short stature, and skeletal dysplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital abnormalities, intellectual disability and delayed development of skills such as sitting and walking. Characteristic facial features include a round face, thick hair, synophrys, wide-set, bulging eyes with long eyelashes, a short nose and down-turned corners of the mouth. Patent ductus arteriosus is present in most cases. Obstructive sleep apnea is a common feature. Cases are usually shorter than more than 97 percent of their peers and are overweight for their height. Other features include microcephaly, hearing loss, cataract, single horseshoe-shaped kidney and cryptorchidism. Caused by mutations in the AFF4 gene thought to result in excessive AFF4 protein, which interferes with normal pauses in transcription.
dysplastic tricuspid valve	A congenital malformation of the tricuspid valve characterized by leaflet deformation. [HPO:probinson, PMID:2007717, PMID:26059011, UToronto:chum]
branchiootic syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of second branchial arch anomalies (branchial cysts and fistulae), malformations of the outer, middle and inner ear associated with sensorineural, mixed or conductive hearing loss and the absence of renal abnormalities. Typical ear findings consist of malformed auricles (lop or cupped ears), preauricular pits and/or tags, and middle and/or inner ear dysplasias (including cochlear, vestibular and semicircular channel hypoplasia, malformation of the ossicles and of middle ear space).
branchiootic syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of second branchial arch anomalies (branchial cysts and fistulae), malformations of the outer, middle and inner ear associated with sensorineural, mixed or conductive hearing loss and the absence of renal abnormalities. Typical ear findings consist of malformed auricles (lop or cupped ears), preauricular pits and/or tags, and middle and/or inner ear dysplasias (including cochlear, vestibular and semicircular channel hypoplasia, malformation of the ossicles and of middle ear space).
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1b	Autosomal dominant limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B (LGMD1B) is a laminopathy with characteristics of progressive limb girdle weakness, usually affecting the pelvic girdle before humeral muscles, mild joint contractures and age-related atrioventricular cardiac conduction disturbances. Dilated cardiomyopathy is frequently associated.
fetal iodine syndrome (disorder)	Fetal iodine syndrome is a group of symptoms that may be observed in a fetus or newborn when the mother was exposed during pregnancy to inappropriate (excessive or insufficient) amounts of iodine, a nonmetallic halogen element. Maternal iodine can be readily transferred to the fetus, and chronic maternal exposure to iodine can lead to hypothyroidism and goitre in the offspring. The majority of the reported fatalities caused by iodine intoxication resulted from the use of iodine-containing expectorants during pregnancy. Based on these observations, the repeated or routine use of iodine-containing products is not recommended during pregnancy. In addition to the problems associated with iodine intoxication, iodine deficiency during pregnancy may be severe enough to produce hypothyroidism in the fetus.
syndromic orbital border hypoplasia	Syndromic orbital border hypoplasia is a rare disorder observed in two families to date with characteristics of agenesis of the orbital margin, varying defects of the lacrimal passages, hypoplasia of the palpebral skin and tarsal plates and atresia of the nasolacrimal duct.
isolated congenital alacrima (disorder)	Deficient lacrimation ranging from a complete absence of tears to hyposecretion of tears that is present from birth. Prevalence is unknown. Transmission is usually autosomal recessive, but dominant transmission has also been described. Artificial tears are the first treatment option, needed to avoid corneal sequelae.
hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma gamborg nielsen type (disorder)	The presence of diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma without associated symptoms. The syndrome has been described in multiple families from the northernmost county of Sweden (Norrbotten). The palmoplantar keratoderma found in the Gamborg-Nielsen type disease is milder than that found in Mal de Meleda but more severe than that found in Thost-Unna palmoplantar keratoderma. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
partington disease	An extremely rare skin disease described in only four families to date and characterised in males by diffuse reticulate brown hyperpigmented skin lesions developing in early childhood and a variety of systemic manifestations (recurrent pneumonia, corneal opacification, gastrointestinal inflammation, urethral stricture, failure to thrive, hypohidrosis, digital clubbing, and unruly hair and flared eyebrows), while in females, there is only cutaneous involvement with the development in early childhood of localised brown hyperpigmented skin lesions following the lines of Blaschko. This disease was first considered as a cutaneous amyloidosis, but amyloid deposits are an inconstant feature.
basm syndrome	The association of biliary atresia and splenic abnormalities. Cardiac defect, situs inversus and a preduodenal portal vein can also be present. It represents the embryonal or syndromic form of biliary atresia. It affects newborns or infants and is characterized by jaundice, pale stools, dark urine, failure to thrive, hepatomegaly, coagulopathy, anemia and often palpable spleen.
syndromic x-linked ichthyosis	Refers to cases of recessive X-linked ichthyosis (RXLI) that are associated with extracutaneous manifestations as part of a syndrome. It affects almost exclusively males. Cutaneous manifestations include hyperkeratosis and scaling of the skin. Non cutaneous manifestations may be corneal opacity, late puberty, cryptorchidism and a higher frequency of testicular cancer. Manifestations due to contiguous gene syndrome include neurological abnormalities such as epilepsy and hyposmia, intellectual deficit and/or short stature. Transmission is X-linked recessive.
multicentric osteolysis nodulosis arthropathy spectrum	A rare genetic chronic skeletal disorder with characteristics of peripheral osteolysis, interphalangeal joint erosions, subcutaneous fibrocollagenous nodules, facial dysmorphism, and a wide range of associated manifestations. The prevalence and incidence of MONA are not known. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported worldwide. MONA spectrum disorders are caused by mutations in the MMP2 gene (16q13-q21) or MMP14 gene (14q11-q12). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Many cases are reported in children from consanguineous unions.
familial hypospadias of penis (disorder)	The displacement of the urethral meatus on the ventrum of the penis. This abnormality is associated with a varyingly bent, twisted penis and opened dorsal prepuce. This congenital malformation is not rare, with an estimated prevalence of 1/1000 births but familial forms account for only 10% of cases. Hypospadias is clinically more or less severe depending on the location of the urethral opening. Familial forms are identified by determining the medical history of the family.
congenital retraction of eyelid	A very rare kinetic eyelid anomaly that can affect the upper or lower eyelid, presents at birth, that in some cases can result in corneal exposure, and that may be associated with accessory levator muscle slips.
ischio-spinal dysostosis	Very rare poorly-defined bone disease with manifestation of ischial aplasia or hypoplasia, vertebral anomalies (vertebral malsegmentation, kyphoscoliosis), and in some patients, non-distinctive facial dysmorphism.
deafness with malformation of ear and facial palsy syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of profound conductive deafness due to stapedial abnormalities associated with variable malformations of the external ears and facial paralysis. It has been described in three siblings and their mother. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
pili torti with developmental delay and neurological abnormality syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of growth and developmental delay, mild to moderate neurologic abnormalities, and pili torti. It has been described in a brother and his sister born to consanguineous Puerto Rican parents.
short stature with valvular heart disease and characteristic facies syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe short stature with disproportionately short legs, small hands, clinodactyly, valvular heart disease and dysmorphism (ptosis, high-arched palate, abnormal dentition). It has been described in a mother and two daughters. This syndrome is probably transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
thong douglas ferrante syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature, sensorineural deafness, mutism, facial dysmorphism and abnormal neutrophil chemotaxis (leading to recurrent infections). It has been described in two siblings.
osteoporosis and macrocephaly with blindness and joint hyperlaxity syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of osteoporosis, macrocephalus, brachytelephalangy, and hyperextensibility of the joints. Congenital amaurosis and intellectual deficit have also been reported. This syndrome has been described in three members of one family.
holoprosencephaly sequence with hypokinesia and congenital joint contracture syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare fatal central nervous system malformation occurring during embryogenesis presenting prenatally on the ultrasound with holoprosencephaly and fetal hypokinesia as major features. Other manifestations include microcephaly, multiple contractures, intrauterine growth restriction. An X-linked recessive inheritance has been suggested.
holoprosencephaly sequence with hypokinesia and congenital joint contracture syndrome	An extremely rare fatal central nervous system malformation occurring during embryogenesis presenting prenatally on the ultrasound with holoprosencephaly and fetal hypokinesia as major features. Other manifestations include microcephaly, multiple contractures, intrauterine growth restriction. An X-linked recessive inheritance has been suggested.
mullerian duct and limb anomalies syndrome	Syndrome with the association of mullerian duct and distal limb anomalies. It has been described in five individuals from one family. Females presented with anomalies ranging from a vaginal septum to complete duplication of uterus and vagina, and males presented with micropenis. The limb anomalies varied from postaxial polydactyly to severe upper limb hypoplasia with split hand. The mode of transmission is autosomal dominant.
mullerian duct and limb anomalies syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of mullerian duct and distal limb anomalies. It has been described in five individuals from one family. Females presented with anomalies ranging from a vaginal septum to complete duplication of uterus and vagina, and males presented with micropenis. The limb anomalies varied from postaxial polydactyly to severe upper limb hypoplasia with split hand. The mode of transmission is autosomal dominant.
upper limb defect with eye and ear abnormalities syndrome	This syndrome associates upper limb defects (hypoplastic thumb with hypoplasia of the metacarpal bone and phalanges and delayed bone maturation), developmental delay, central hearing loss, unilateral poorly developed antihelix, bilateral choroid coloboma and growth retardation. This syndrome has been reported in two siblings. The inheritance is probably autosomal recessive.
upper limb defect with eye and ear abnormalities syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome associates upper limb defects (hypoplastic thumb with hypoplasia of the metacarpal bone and phalanges and delayed bone maturation), developmental delay, central hearing loss, unilateral poorly developed antihelix, bilateral choroid coloboma and growth retardation. This syndrome has been reported in two siblings. The inheritance is probably autosomal recessive.
lbwc (limb body wall complex) syndrome	Limb body wall complex (LBWC) is a syndrome with features of severe multiple congenital anomalies. Clinical manifestations vary widely and include limb defects and visceral malformations, spinal abnormalities, absent diaphragm, bowel atresia and renal agenesis. Karyotypes have been reported as normal and no correlations with gender, parental age and teratogenic agents have been found. The principal theories are an extrinsic origin by early amniotic rupture, or a vascular origin due to an early vascular accident during embryological development. Single cases of familial occurrence have been documented. LBWC is fatal, with death occurring antenatally or early in the neonatal period.
autosomal dominant diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma norrbotten type (disorder)	This syndrome has manifestation of a diffuse non-epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma with frequent fungal infections. Prevalence in the general population is estimated at 1 in 40,000 but is much higher in northern Sweden. Transmission is autosomal dominant and the causative gene has been localised to chromosome 12q11-q13.
hypospadias and intellectual disability syndrome goldblatt type	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in three brothers of one South-African family, and with features of hypospadias and intellectual deficit, in association with microcephaly, craniofacial dysmorphism, joint laxity and beaked nails
cleft palate and cleft lip with deafness and sacral lipoma syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is characterised by cleft lip and palate, profound sensorineural deafness and a sacral lipoma. It has been described in two brothers of Chinese origin born to non-consanguineous parents. Additional findings include appendages on the heel and thigh, or anterior sacral meningocoele and dislocated hip. The mode of inheritance is probably autosomal or X-linked recessive.
dyssegmental dysplasia with glaucoma syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is characterized by Kniest dysplasia, spine abnormalities and severe dwarfism. Glaucoma has also been reported. The syndrome has been described in two unrelated children
cataract with aberrant oral frenula and growth delay syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is characterized by cataracts and short stature associated with variable anomalies, including aberrant oral frenula, a characteristic facial appearance (posteriorly angulated ears, upslanting palpebral fissures, small nose, ptosis and epicanthal folds) cavernous haemangiomas and hernias. It has been described in a mother and her two children. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
familial isolated arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia	Familial autosomal dominant form of arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, a heart muscle disease with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias and left bundle branch block configuration that may manifest with palpitations, ventricular tachycardia, syncope and sudden fatal attacks.
lissencephaly type 1 due to doublecortin gene mutation (disorder)	A semi-dominant X-linked disease with intellectual deficiency and seizures that is more severe in male patients. Boys presenting with lissencephaly show an abnormally thick cortex with very few gyri (pachygyria) or even none (agyria). Clinical manifestations include swallowing and feeding difficulties, abnormal muscular tone, seizures and severe to profound psychomotor retardation. Female patients display a less severe malformation referred to as ''doublecortex'' or subcortical laminar heterotopia and present with clinical signs of variable severity ranging from mild epilepsy to refractory epileptic seizures and severe intellectual deficiency. The condition is caused by doublecortin (DCX, located at Xq22.3-q23) gene mutations.
mirror polydactyly, vertebral segmentation and limb defect syndrome	Rare syndrome with manifestations of mirror polydactyly, vertebral hypersegmentation and severe congenital limb deficiencies. Duodenal atresia and absent thymus also reported. So far, it has been described in four unrelated infants, it is suggested that the syndrome is caused by defective expression of a developmental control gene.
autosomal recessive distal osteolysis syndrome	Rare disorder with features of severe resorption of the hands and feet and absence of the distal and middle phalanges. Other manifestations include distal muscular hypertrophy, flexion contractures, short stature, mild intellectual deficit and characteristic facies (maxillary hypoplasia, exophthalmos, and a broad nasal tip). It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
distal osteolysis, short stature and intellectual disability	Rare disorder with features of severe resorption of the hands and feet and absence of the distal and middle phalanges. Other manifestations include distal muscular hypertrophy, flexion contractures, short stature, mild intellectual deficit and characteristic facies (maxillary hypoplasia, exophthalmos, and a broad nasal tip). It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
indomethacin embryofetopathy	A group of symptoms which may be observed in the fetus or newborn when the mother has taken indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug during pregnancy. The drug crosses the human placenta readily throughout gestation, but its effects on the embryo/fetus vary according to the stage of pregnancy.
congenital muscular dystrophy with infantile cataract and hypogonadism syndrome	This syndrome is characterised by congenital muscular dystrophy, infantile cataract and hypogonadism. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
foetal varicella syndrome	Acquired developmental anomaly syndrome characterized by skin, neural, ocular, limbs and growth defects secondary to Varicella-Zoster virus infection.
embryopathy caused by phenobarbital (disorder)	A teratogenic disorder associated with intrauterine exposure to phenobarbital during the first trimester of pregnancy. Infants are usually asymptomatic but at an increased risk of intellectual disability, tetralogy of Fallot, unilateral cleft lip, hypoplasia of the mitral valve and some other mild abnormalities such as hypertelorism.
ectodermal dysplasia with blindness syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, blindness caused by ocular malformations (microphthalmia, microcornea and sclerocornea), short stature, dysmorphic facial features (narrow nasal bridge and prominent ears), hypotrichosis, and malaligned teeth. It has been described in two siblings (brother and sister) and is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
ectodermal dysplasia with blindness syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, blindness caused by ocular malformations (microphthalmia, microcornea and sclerocornea), short stature, dysmorphic facial features (narrow nasal bridge and prominent ears), hypotrichosis, and malaligned teeth. It has been described in two siblings (brother and sister) and is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa nails only	A rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa that shows no blistering and that has characteristics of dystrophic or absent nails. Prevalence is unknown. Approximately ten families have been reported to date. However, this variant may be overlooked because of negligible clinical implications. Onset is usually at birth or during infancy. Except from nail involvement, no other cutaneous or extracutaneous symptoms are observed. Nail deformity is often limited to toenails that can appear thickened and shortened. Caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). It usually follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. One family with an autosomal recessive inheritance has also been reported.
dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa nails only (disorder)	A rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa that shows no blistering and that has characteristics of dystrophic or absent nails. Prevalence is unknown. Approximately ten families have been reported to date. However, this variant may be overlooked because of negligible clinical implications. Onset is usually at birth or during infancy. Except from nail involvement, no other cutaneous or extracutaneous symptoms are observed. Nail deformity is often limited to toenails that can appear thickened and shortened. Caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). It usually follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. One family with an autosomal recessive inheritance has also been reported.
duane anomaly, myopathy, scoliosis syndrome	Syndrome with the association of bilateral Duane anomaly type 3, severe scoliosis of early onset, congenital myopathy with hypotonia without muscular weakness, delayed motor development, and short stature. It has been described in one pair of siblings. The Duane type 3 anomaly consists of eye abduction and adduction palsy, globe retraction and narrowing of the palpebral fissure. Muscular biopsy shows aspecific myopathy. Intellectual development is normal. The syndrome is most likely inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
obstructed hemivagina and ipsilateral renal anomaly	A rare congenital urogenital anomaly characterised by the presence of double uterus (didelphys, bicornuate or septum-complete or partial), unilateral cervico-vaginal obstruction and ipsilateral renal anomalies (renal agenesis and/or other urinary tract anomalies). Patients are usually diagnosed at puberty after menarche due to recurrent severe dysmenorrhoea, chronic pelvic pain, excessive foul smelling mucopurulent discharge, spotting and intermenstrual bleeding (depending on the existence of uterine or vaginal communications). Fever, dyspareunia, and a palpable abdominal, pelvic or vaginal mass (mucocolpos or pyocolpos) may also be present.
double uterus and obstructed hemivagina syndrome	A rare congenital urogenital anomaly characterised by the presence of double uterus (didelphys, bicornuate or septum-complete or partial), unilateral cervico-vaginal obstruction and ipsilateral renal anomalies (renal agenesis and/or other urinary tract anomalies). Patients are usually diagnosed at puberty after menarche due to recurrent severe dysmenorrhoea, chronic pelvic pain, excessive foul smelling mucopurulent discharge, spotting and intermenstrual bleeding (depending on the existence of uterine or vaginal communications). Fever, dyspareunia, and a palpable abdominal, pelvic or vaginal mass (mucocolpos or pyocolpos) may also be present.
congenital hereditary facial paralysis with variable hearing loss syndrome	An extremely rare autosomal recessive disorder with characteristics of bilateral facial palsy with masked facies, sensorineural hearing loss, dysmorphic features (midfacial retrusion, low-set ears) and strabismus.
congenital hereditary facial paralysis with variable hearing loss syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare autosomal recessive disorder with characteristics of bilateral facial palsy with masked facies, sensorineural hearing loss, dysmorphic features (midfacial retrusion, low-set ears) and strabismus.
autism and facial port-wine stain syndrome	Syndrome marked by the presence of a unilateral angioma on the face and autistic developmental problems with characteristics of language delay and atypical social interactions. So far, the syndrome has been described in four children.
auriculoocular anomaly and cleft lip syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of auricular abnormalities and cleft lip with or without cleft palate. Only two cases have been reported in the literature. One of these cases also presented with myopia, nystagmus and retinal pigment abnormalities.
hypoplasia and coloboma of alar cartilage with telecanthus syndrome (disorder)	A very rare dysmorphic disorder with characteristics of hypoplasia and coloboma of the alar cartilages and telecanthus described in 2 sisters. No new cases with similar features have been reported since 1976.
severe x-linked intellectual disability gustavson type	This syndrome has characteristics of X-linked mental retardation, microcephaly, optical atrophy with impaired vision or blindness, a severe hearing defect, facial dysmorphology, spasticity, epileptic seizures and restricted joint movement. It has been described in seven children from two generations of a Swedish family. All patients died in during early childhood.
patent ductus arteriosus, bicuspid aortic valve, hand anomaly syndrome (disorder)	A very rare heart-hand syndrome that has characteristics of a variety of cardiovascular anomalies including patent arterial duct, bicuspid aortic valve and pseudocoarctation of the aorta in conjunction with hand anomalies such as brachydactyly and ulnar ray derivative i.e. fifth metacarpal hypoplasia. Transmission is most likely autosomal dominant although X-linked dominance could not be excluded.
palmoplantar keratoderma, 46,xx sex reversal, predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of sex reversal in males with a 46, XX (SRY-negative) karyotype, palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and a predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma. To date, five cases (four of whom were brothers) have been described.
overgrowth, macrocephaly, facial dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of tall stature, learning difficulties and facial dysmorphism. So far, it has been described in six families. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the RNF135 (ring finger protein 135) gene.
sclerosing dysplasia of bone, ichthyosis, premature ovarian failure syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of sclerosing bone dysplasia, ichthyosis vulgaris and premature ovarian failure. The bone disorder affects all metaphyseal-diaphyseal regions of the long bones, the skull, and the metacarpals. It has been described in three adult sisters presenting with swelling of the limbs and occasional mild pain in the legs.
osteosclerosis, developmental delay, craniosynostosis syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of osteosclerosis, developmental delay and craniosynostosis. It has been reported in 13 patients from a four-generation family. Osteosclerosis was constant and most pronounced in the cranial base and calvarium. Craniosynostosis was reported in four patients and a mild developmental delay in three patients. Dysmorphic features were constant and included macrocephaly, brachycephaly, wide and high forehead, hypertelorism, prominent cheekbones and prominent jaw. A missense mutation A214T in the low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 5 gene.
osteopenia, myopia, hearing loss, intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe hypertelorism, brachycephaly, abnormal ears, sloping shoulders, enamel hypoplasia, osteopenia with frequent fractures, severe myopia, mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit. It has been described in two brothers born to first-cousin parents. No chromosomal anomalies were detected. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive or X-linked.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 8 (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of tongue lobulation, hypoplasia of the epiglottis, median cleft upper lip, broad or bifid nasal tip, hypertelorism or telecanthus, bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly, abnormal tibia and/or radius, duplication of the halluces, short stature and mild intellectual deficit. The syndrome has been described in one family with four affected males in three generations. Increased susceptibility to respiratory infections has been noted. X-linked recessive transmission has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 8	Syndrome with characteristics of tongue lobulation, hypoplasia of the epiglottis, median cleft upper lip, broad or bifid nasal tip, hypertelorism or telecanthus, bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly, abnormal tibia and/or radius, duplication of the halluces, short stature and mild intellectual deficit. The syndrome has been described in one family with four affected males in three generations. Increased susceptibility to respiratory infections has been noted. X-linked recessive transmission has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
oral-facial-digital syndrome edwards type	Syndrome with characteristics of tongue lobulation, hypoplasia of the epiglottis, median cleft upper lip, broad or bifid nasal tip, hypertelorism or telecanthus, bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly, abnormal tibia and/or radius, duplication of the halluces, short stature and mild intellectual deficit. The syndrome has been described in one family with four affected males in three generations. Increased susceptibility to respiratory infections has been noted. X-linked recessive transmission has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
kallman syndrome with heart disease (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) deficiency, anosmia or hyposmia (with hypoplasia or aplasia of the olfactory bulbs) and complex congenital cardiac malformations (double-outlet right ventricle, dilated cardiomyopathy, right aortic arch). It represents a distinct clinical entity from Kallmann syndrome. Less than 10 cases have been described so far.
persistent mullerian derivative with lymphangiectasia and polydactyly syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of prenatal linear growth deficiency, hypertrophied alveolar ridges, redundant nuchal skin, postaxial polydactyly and cryptorchidism. Mullerian duct remnants, lymphangiectasis and renal anomalies are also present. Three cases have been described. A small penis was observed in two of these cases. The syndrome is likely to be an autosomal recessive or X-linked trait. All the reported patients died neonatally of hepatic failure.
lung agenesis with heart defect and thumb anomaly syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of unilateral complete or partial lung agenesis, congenital cardiac defects and ipsilateral thumb anomalies. It has been described in 7 patients. Cardiac abnormalities are variable and mainly consist of atrial septal defect, anomalous pulmonary venous return or patent ductus arteriosus. Thumb anomalies include triphalangeal, proximally placed, hypoplastic or reduplicated thumb. One patient had a preaxial polydactyly with a rudimentary thumb. Other malformations can be also observed. The affected patients have normal intellectual development.
lung fibrosis, immunodeficiency, 46,xx gonadal dysgenesis syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by immune deficiency, gonadal dysgenesis and fatal lung fibrosis. So far, it has been described in two sisters born to consanguineous parents. Both karyotypes were normal female (46,XX). No genetic anomalies could be identified by comparative genome hybridization analysis of their genomes or by analysis of genes known to be associated with these types of anomalies.
robinow-like syndrome (disorder)	The association of the clinical features present in Robinow syndrome (short stature, mesomelic brachymelia, macrocephaly and hypoplastic genitalia) with anterior chamber cleavage anomalies. It has been described in two sisters and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
microphthalmia with brain and digit anomaly	This syndrome has characteristics of anophthalmia or microphthalmia, retinal dystrophy, and/or myopia, associated in some cases with cerebral anomalies. It has been described in two families. Polydactyly may also be present. Linkage analysis allowed identification of mutations in the BMP4 gene, which has already been shown to play a role in eye development.
hypertrichosis acromegaloid facial features syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome manifesting from birth with progressive hypertrichosis congenita terminalis (thick scalp hair extending onto the forehead with generalized increased body hair) associated with a typical acromegaloid facial appearance (thick eyebrows, prominent supraorbital ridges, broad nasal bridge, anteverted nares, long and large philtrum, and prominent mouth with full lips) appearing during childhood.
brain malformation, congenital heart disease, postaxial polydactyly syndrome	Goossens-Devriendt syndrome has characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, a congenital heart defect, postaxial polydactyly, brain malformation, abnormal hair with temporal balding and marked facial dysmorphism. It has been reported in two siblings from unrelated parents. One of the siblings died and the surviving patient showed postnatal growth retardation and severe developmental delay.
brain malformation, congenital heart disease, postaxial polydactyly syndrome (disorder)	Goossens-Devriendt syndrome has characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, a congenital heart defect, postaxial polydactyly, brain malformation, abnormal hair with temporal balding and marked facial dysmorphism. It has been reported in two siblings from unrelated parents. One of the siblings died and the surviving patient showed postnatal growth retardation and severe developmental delay.
cosack syndrome	A disorder belonging to the group of oromandibular-limb hypogenesis syndromes with the presence of an intraoral band of variable thickness attaching the tongue to the hard palate or maxillary alveolar ridge. The syndrome is very rare with less than 30 cases reported in the literature so far. Associated anomalies include cleft palate (in which case the tongue may be attached to the nasal septum), mandibular hypoplasia, upper-lip hypoplasia, hypodontia and variable limb anomalies (oligodactyly, syndactyly and polydactyly as well as more severe limb malformations). The syndrome appears to be sporadic.
glossopalatine ankylosis (disorder)	A disorder belonging to the group of oromandibular-limb hypogenesis syndromes with the presence of an intraoral band of variable thickness attaching the tongue to the hard palate or maxillary alveolar ridge. The syndrome is very rare with less than 30 cases reported in the literature so far. Associated anomalies include cleft palate (in which case the tongue may be attached to the nasal septum), mandibular hypoplasia, upper-lip hypoplasia, hypodontia and variable limb anomalies (oligodactyly, syndactyly and polydactyly as well as more severe limb malformations). The syndrome appears to be sporadic.
global developmental delay, osteopenia, ectodermal defect syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is characterised by the association of global developmental delay, osteopenia and skin anomalies. To date, only three cases (two brothers and one unrelated girl) have been reported. Central nervous system anomalies manifest as poor language skills, inappropriate behaviour (temper tantrums, aggressiveness), concentration and attention span difficulties and impulsiveness. Intellectual deficit was reported in two out of the three cases. Skin anomalies were hyperkeratosis, granular layer thickening, and sweat gland and melanocyte abnormalities.
diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma and acrocyanosis syndrome	Syndrome with the association of diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma and acrocyanosis. It has been described in eight members of one family and in two sporadic cases. The mode of inheritance in the familial cases was autosomal dominant.
froster huch syndrome	Syndrome with the association of classical diaphragmatic hernia (Bochdalek type), severe lung hypoplasia and variable associated malformations. It has been reported only once in four successive fetuses (two females and two males) born to a nonconsanguineous couple. The spectrum of malformations is wide and includes omphalocele (one case), severe limb hypoplasia (two cases), syndactyly of the toes (two cases), extra spleen (one case) and an ossification defect of the skull (one case).
developmental malformation, deafness, dystonia syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is characterized by the association of midline malformations, sensory hearing loss, and a delayed-onset generalized dystonia syndrome. It has been described in two monozygotic twins. The syndrome is caused by a missense point mutation in the gene coding for beta-actin, a nonmuscle actin isoform. Mutations in nonmuscle actin isoforms may be associated with developmental anomalies and neurological disorders such as dystonia.
dermo-odonto dysplasia (disorder)	Dermo-odonto dysplasia belongs to the group of tricho-odonto-onychial dysplasia. It has signs of variable severity: dry and thin skin, dental anomalies, nail alteration and trichodysplasia.
dentinogenesis imperfecta, short stature, hearing loss, intellectual disability syndrome	Syndrome with the association of dentinogenesis imperfecta, delayed tooth eruption, facial dysmorphism, small stature, sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit. It has been described in two brothers born to consanguineous parents. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
martin probst syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe bilateral deafness, intellectual deficit, umbilical hernia and abnormal dermatoglyphics. It has been described in three males from three generations of one family. Mild facial dysmorphism (telangiectasias, hypertelorism, dental anomalies and a wide nasal root) was also present. Short stature, pancytopenia, microcephaly and renal and genitourinary anomalies were present in some of the patients. The mode of transmission is X-linked recessive and the causative gene is q1-21 region of the X chromosome.
thoracic insufficiency syndrome	Thoracic insufficiency syndrome is a complex condition involving congenital chest wall deformities that affect normal breathing and lung growth. It results from serious defects affecting the ribs or chest wall, such as severe scoliosis or rib fusion, and various hypoplastic thorax syndromes such as Jeune Syndrome and Jarcho-Levin syndrome.
ol-eda-id (anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, immunodeficiency, osteopetrosis, lymphedema) syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by severe immunodeficiency, osteopetrosis, lymphedema and anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. It has been described in a few unrelated male patients born to mothers with mild incontinentia pigmenti. The first two reported children died before three years of age from multiple infections with Gram-positive cocci, Gram-negative bacilli, mycobacteria, and fungi. The syndrome is classified as a X-linked osteopetrosis and is caused by mutations in the IKBKG (NEMO) gene (Xq28).
ol-eda-id (anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, immunodeficiency, osteopetrosis, lymphoedema) syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by severe immunodeficiency, osteopetrosis, lymphedema and anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. It has been described in a few unrelated male patients born to mothers with mild incontinentia pigmenti. The first two reported children died before three years of age from multiple infections with Gram-positive cocci, Gram-negative bacilli, mycobacteria, and fungi. The syndrome is classified as a X-linked osteopetrosis and is caused by mutations in the IKBKG (NEMO) gene (Xq28).
amaurosis hypertrichosis syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of severe retinal dystrophy marked by visual impairment and profound photophobia without night blindness. Eye examination suggested a cone-rod type of congenital amaurosis. Trichomegaly, bushy eyebrows with synophrys and excessive facial and body hair were also reported. The syndrome has been described in two female cousins both born to consanguineous parents.
alopecia, contracture, dwarfism, intellectual disability syndrome	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of short stature of prenatal onset, alopecia, ichthyosis, photophobia, ectrodactyly, seizures, scoliosis, multiple contractures, fusions of various bones, particularly elbows, carpals, metacarpals, and spine, intellectual disability and facial dysmorphism.
acd (alopecia, contracture, dwarfism) mental retardation syndrome	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of short stature of prenatal onset, alopecia, ichthyosis, photophobia, ectrodactyly, seizures, scoliosis, multiple contractures, fusions of various bones, particularly elbows, carpals, metacarpals, and spine, intellectual disability and facial dysmorphism.
acd (alopecia, contracture, dwarfism) syndrome	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of short stature of prenatal onset, alopecia, ichthyosis, photophobia, ectrodactyly, seizures, scoliosis, multiple contractures, fusions of various bones, particularly elbows, carpals, metacarpals, and spine, intellectual disability and facial dysmorphism.
leg duplication mirror foot syndrome	Fibular dimelia accompanied by complete tibial agenesis and mirror polydactyly or foot duplication is a rare developmental anomaly reported in at least 11 cases. It can be isolated or associated with ulnar dimelia, facial abnormalities and sacrococcygeal teratoma. The cause is unknown, but has been suggested that a teratogenic event occurs as developmental specification reaches the level of the future knee. A central role for the mesenchymal precursor, from which chondro-osseous morphology emerges, has also been suggested. Treatment is surgical and prosthesis is needed in order to improve the quality of life of affected children.
ehlers-danlos syndrome musculocontractural type (disorder)	A form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) with characteristics of distinct craniofacial features, multiple contractures, progressive joint and skin laxity, adducted thumb, talipes equinovarus, hemorrhagic diathesis and multisystem fragility-related manifestations.
ehlers-danlos syndrome cardiac valvular type (disorder)	A form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) with characteristics of joint hypermobility, skin hyperextensibility and cardiac valvular defects.
ehlers-danlos syndrome with periventricular heterotopia	A newly described variant of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). Affected patients exhibit features consistent with EDS, including joint hypermobility, skin fragility and aortic dilatation. They also have periventricular heterotopia, which has characteristics of focal epilepsy usually beginning in the second decade of life. Intelligence is generally normal. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies such as patent ductus arteriosus, bicuspid aortic valves, or aneurysmal dilatation of the sinus of Valsalva. Caused by mutations in the filamin A gene (FLNA) located at locus Xq28 on the long arm of chromosome X. This suggests a novel cause of EDS. The disease is transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait.
severe combined immunodeficiency, microcephaly, growth retardation, sensitivity to ionising radiation syndrome	A rare form of combined immunodeficiency with characteristics of microcephaly, growth retardation and T and B cell lymphopenia. Patients present in childhood with growth retardation, microcephaly, urogenital and bone malformations, dysmorphic features, including ''bird-like'' facial dysmorphism, and features of combined immunodeficiency. Some patients may also present with autoimmune cytopenia. This disease is caused by mutations in the NHEJ1 (or Cernunos) gene (2q35). The resulting defect of Cernunnos/XLF, a core protein of the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) pathway, affects the major mechanism of DNA double-strand break repair. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
cervical hypertrichosis and peripheral neuropathy syndrome (disorder)	A rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypertrichosis in the anterior cervical region, peripheral sensory and motor neuropathy. It has been described in three members of the same family and in one unrelated boy. Associated features in the familial cases include retinal anomalies, spina bifida, kyphoscoliosis and hallux valgus, while that in the non-familial case includes developmental delay. An autosomal recessive mode of inheritance is suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
longman tolmie syndrome	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of craniosynostosis, mild facial dysmorphism (prominent supraorbital ridges, mild proptosis and maxillary hypoplasia) and calcification of the basal ganglia. The disease is associated with a favorable neurological outcome, normal intelligence and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
craniosynostosis with facial dysmorphism and brachydactyly syndrome	This syndrome has a variable clinical picture of premature coronal suture synostosis with a mild midfacial hypoplasia and hypertelorism, downslanting external palpebral fissures, beaking of the nose and brachydactyly (involving only fingers, not metacarpals). It has been reported in only one family with five affected individuals in three generations. Prenatal diagnosis of abnormal head shape was done at a routine ultrasound examination for one of the grandchildren, at 28 weeks of pregnancy. The pedigree suggests an autosomal dominantly inherited condition, but no gene could be identified for this syndrome, considered as a distinct craniosynostosis entity.
3mc syndrome	A rare developmental disorder, that unifies the overlapping autosomal recessive disorders previously known as Carnevale, Mingarelli, Malpuech and Michels syndromes. The syndrome has characteristics of a spectrum of developmental anomalies that include distinctive facial dysmorphism, cleft lip and/or palate, craniosynostosis, learning disability, radioulnar synostosis and genital and vesicorenal anomalies. Less common features reported include anterior chamber defects, cardiac anomalies, caudal appendage, umbilical hernia/omphalocele and diastasis recti.
craniofacial dyssynostosis syndrome (disorder)	A rare cranial malformation syndrome with characteristics of premature closure of both lambdoid sutures and the posterior sagittal suture resulting in abnormal skull contour and dysmorphic facial features. Short stature, developmental delay, epilepsy and oculomotor dyspraxia have also been reported. Associated anomalies include enlargement of the cerebral ventricles, agenesis of the corpus callosum, Arnold-Chiari malformation type I, venous anomalies of skull and hydrocephalus.
craniofacial conodysplasia syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of craniofacial dysplasia, cone-shaped physes of the hands and feet and neurological manifestations resembling cerebral palsy. It has been described in one family. The syndrome appeared to be transmitted as a dominant trait.
cerebro-facio-thoracic dysplasia	A rare syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism, intellectual deficit and costovertebral abnormalities. To date, 13 cases have been reported in the literature. Dysmorphic features include brachycephaly, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, large philtrum, triangular-shaped mouth and micrognathia. There is often synophrys and a low hairline on the back. Costovertebral abnormalities are always present: short, bifid or fused ribs, bony bridges joining the posterior arches in some ribs, hemi vertebrae. Intellectual deficit is constant but the severity varies and patients also have cerebral abnormalities: cortical atrophy, hypoplasia of the corpus callosum and cerebellar vermis.
cerebellar ataxia, areflexia, pes cavus, optic atrophy, sensorineural hearing loss syndrome (disorder)	A rare autosomal dominant neurological disorder with characteristics of early onset cerebellar ataxia, associated with areflexia, progressive optic atrophy, sensorineural deafness, a pes cavus deformity and abnormal eye movements.
cardiomyopathy and renal anomaly syndrome	The association of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with variable malformations of the urogenital tract. To date, it has been described in two brothers born to nonconsanguineous parents. One of the brothers also had dysgenesis of the corpus callosum. The mode of transmission is unknown but may be X-linked or autosomal recessive.
cardiac anomaly and heterotaxy syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of non-compaction of the ventricular myocardium, bradycardia, pulmonary valve stenosis and secundum atrial septal defect. Laterality sequence anomalies are also present. So far, the syndrome has been described in nine members from three generations of the same family. Transmission is autosomal dominant and linkage to chromosome 6p24.3-21.2 was reported.
catshl (camptodactyly, tall stature, scoliosis, hearing loss) syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of camptodactyly, tall stature, scoliosis, and hearing loss (CATSHL). It has been described in around 30 individuals from seven generations of the same family. The syndrome is caused by a missense mutation in the FGFR3 gene, leading to a partial loss of function of the encoded protein, which is a negative regulator of bone growth.
braddock syndrome	A rare malformation syndrome with multiple congenital abnormalities, described in 2 siblings, with characteristics of VATER-like association in combination with pulmonary hypertension, laryngeal webs, blue sclerae, abnormal ears, persistent growth deficiency and normal intellect.
brachytelephalangy, facial dysmorphism, kallmann syndrome (disorder)	A developmental anomaly with characteristics of brachytelephalangy, distinct craniofacial features (prominent square forehead, telecanthus, small nose, malar hypoplasia, smooth philtrum and thin upper lip), and relative to other family members, a short stature. These features may be associated with anosmia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (considered as Kallman syndrome). This anomaly has been described in a mother and her son and there have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
de die, smulders, vles, fryns syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of moderate intellectual deficit, brachycephaly, typical facies (thin lips and microstomia), ectomorphic habitus with extremely long, thin fingers and toes and hypoplastic external genitalia. It has been described in three patients.
anophthalmia and megalocornea with cardiopathy and skeletal anomalies syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome reported in the offsprings of a consanguineous couple with characteristics of multiple congenital skeletal, muscular, ocular and cardiac abnormalities. An autosomal recessive inheritance with variable expressivity was suspected. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
adducted thumbs and arthrogryposis syndrome christian type (disorder)	A type of arthrogryposis with characteristics of congenital cleft palate, microcephaly, craniostenosis and arthrogryposis. Additional features include facial dysmorphism. Velopharyngeal insufficiency with difficulties in swallowing, increased secretion of the nose and throat, prominent occiput, generalized muscular hypotonia with mild cyanosis and no spontaneous movements, seizures, torticollis, areflexia, intellectual disability, hypertrichosis of the lower extremities, and scleredema are also observed. The disease often leads to early death. Transmission is autosomal recessive. No new cases have been described since 1983.
adducted thumbs and arthrogryposis syndrome christian type	A type of arthrogryposis with characteristics of congenital cleft palate, microcephaly, craniostenosis and arthrogryposis. Additional features include facial dysmorphism. Velopharyngeal insufficiency with difficulties in swallowing, increased secretion of the nose and throat, prominent occiput, generalized muscular hypotonia with mild cyanosis and no spontaneous movements, seizures, torticollis, areflexia, intellectual disability, hypertrichosis of the lower extremities, and scleredema are also observed. The disease often leads to early death. Transmission is autosomal recessive. No new cases have been described since 1983.
acropectororenal dysplasia (disorder)	A very rare association of a Poland anomaly with characteristics of unilateral absence or hypoplasia of the pectoralis major muscle (most frequently involving the sternocostal head) and a variable degree of ipsilateral hand anomalies (including symbrachydactyly, brachydactyly, absent thumb and hypoplastic fingers), combined with a genito-urinary anomaly. Associated genito-urinary anomalies reported include renal hypoplasia or agenesis, duplex collecting system, ureteropelvic junction obstruction, hypospadias and undescended testicles.
acro-pectoro-renal dysplasia	A very rare association of a Poland anomaly with characteristics of unilateral absence or hypoplasia of the pectoralis major muscle (most frequently involving the sternocostal head) and a variable degree of ipsilateral hand anomalies (including symbrachydactyly, brachydactyly, absent thumb and hypoplastic fingers), combined with a genito-urinary anomaly. Associated genito-urinary anomalies reported include renal hypoplasia or agenesis, duplex collecting system, ureteropelvic junction obstruction, hypospadias and undescended testicles.
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1g	A mild form of limb girdle muscular dystrophy that has characteristics of limb-girdle weakness, marked proximal amyotrophy and abolished myotatic reflexes, associated with progressive fingers and toes flexion limitation.
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1f (disorder)	A form of limb girdle muscular dystrophy with characteristics of muscle weakness affecting the pelvic girdle and especially the iliopsoas muscle. Respiratory impairment may be observed in advanced stages.
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1e (disorder)	A limb-girdle muscular dystrophy with characteristics of skeletal and cardiac myopathy with cardiac conduction defects and muscle cytoplasmic inclusions.
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1d	A limb girdle muscular dystrophy with characteristics of muscular weakness, primarily affecting the pelvic and shoulder girdles with no bulbar weakness or dysarthria.
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1c	A limb girdle muscular dystrophy caused by caveolin-3 deficiency with characteristics of weakness in limb-girdle muscles, calf muscle hypertrophy and lack of respiratory and cardiac involvement.
limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 1a myotilin myopathy	A limb girdle muscular dystrophy caused by myotilin deficiency with characteristics of limb-girdle weakness in combination with dysarthria.
intractable diarrhea with choanal atresia and eye anomaly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is characterised by the association of intractable diarrhoea of infancy with choanal atresia. Short stature, a prominent and broad nasal bridge, micrognathia, single palmar creases, chronic corneal inflammation, cytopenia, and abnormal hair texture were also reported. So far, the syndrome has been described in three children from the same family. The absence of intellectual deficit and immune deficiency allow this syndrome to be distinguished from other forms of intractable diarrhoea of infancy described previously.
taurodontia with absent teeth and sparse hair syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital absence of the teeth and sparse or absent hair. Taurodontia is also present in the majority of cases. The syndrome has been described in less than 15 patients from different families.
trichodysplasia with amelogenesis imperfecta syndrome (disorder)	The association of amelogenesis imperfecta and a microscopically typical hair dysplasia has been found in several members of a family in two generations. Transmission is X-linked.
trichodysplasia with amelogenesis imperfecta syndrome	The association of amelogenesis imperfecta and a microscopically typical hair dysplasia has been found in several members of a family in two generations. Transmission is X-linked.
timothy syndrome type 2 (disorder)	Timothy syndrome is a multi-system disorder with characteristics of cardiac, hand, facial and neurodevelopmental features that include QT prolongation, webbed fingers and toes, flattened nasal bridge, low-set ears, small upper jaw, thin upper lip, and characteristic features of autism or autistic spectrum disorders. Timothy syndrome is caused by mutations in the CACNA1C gene. It is inherited as autosomal dominant trait. Researchers have identified two forms of Timothy syndrome. Type 1, which is also known as the classic type, includes all of the characteristic features described above. Type 2, or the atypical type, causes a more severe form of long QT syndrome and a greater risk of arrhythmia and sudden death. Unlike the classic type, the atypical type does not appear to cause webbing of the fingers or toes.
ulna fibula ray defect and brachydactyly syndrome	A very rare malformation syndrome with characteristics of hypoplasia of ulna associated with hypoplastic to absent fourth and/or fifth digits, hypoplasia of fibula, short stature and facial dysmorphism.
visceral neuropathy and brain anomaly with facial dysmorphism and developmental delay syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of facial dysmorphology, neuropathic visceral dysmotility, neurogenic megacystis, intracerebral calcifications and developmental delay. It has been described in two siblings (brother and sister) born to consanguineous parents. The girl also had microcephaly and multicystic kidneys. The boy had a more extensive neuropathic visceral disorder, leading clinically to chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction syndrome.
ventricular extrasystoles with syncope, perodactyly and robin sequence syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of cardiac arrhythmias (ventricular extrasystoles manifesting as bigeminy or multifocal tachycardia with syncopal episodes), perodactyly (hypoplasia and/or agenesis of the distal phalanges of the toes) and Pierre-Robin sequence. It has initially been reported in six patients from three generations of one family. Four affected members of another family manifesting a similar constellation of clinical features have recently been reported. An additional feature may be an antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures.
ventricular extrasystoles with syncope, perodactyly and robin sequence syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of cardiac arrhythmias (ventricular extrasystoles manifesting as bigeminy or multifocal tachycardia with syncopal episodes), perodactyly (hypoplasia and/or agenesis of the distal phalanges of the toes) and Pierre-Robin sequence. It has initially been reported in six patients from three generations of one family. Four affected members of another family manifesting a similar constellation of clinical features have recently been reported. An additional feature may be an antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures.
xeroderma pigmentosum/cockayne syndrome	Syndrome complex that has characteristics of the cutaneous features of xeroderma pigmentosum together with the systemic and neurological features of Cockayne syndrome. Less than 30 cases have been described to date. The disease manifests during infancy. Patients present with cutaneous UV-sensitive lesions that generally develop into skin cancer and also develop characteristic Cockayne syndrome manifestations such as microcephaly, hydrocephalus, cachexia, premature ageing, dwarfism, skin atrophy, arteriosclerosis, progressive hearing loss, cognitive deficit, spasticity, ataxia, pigmentary retinopathy and optic atrophy. Affected individuals have mutations in one of three XP genes: ERCC3 (2q21), ERCC2 (19q13.3), or ERCC5 (13q22-q34). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
xp-cs	Syndrome complex that has characteristics of the cutaneous features of xeroderma pigmentosum together with the systemic and neurological features of Cockayne syndrome. Less than 30 cases have been described to date. The disease manifests during infancy. Patients present with cutaneous UV-sensitive lesions that generally develop into skin cancer and also develop characteristic Cockayne syndrome manifestations such as microcephaly, hydrocephalus, cachexia, premature ageing, dwarfism, skin atrophy, arteriosclerosis, progressive hearing loss, cognitive deficit, spasticity, ataxia, pigmentary retinopathy and optic atrophy. Affected individuals have mutations in one of three XP genes: ERCC3 (2q21), ERCC2 (19q13.3), or ERCC5 (13q22-q34). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
gingival fibromatosis with facial dysmorphism syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the association of gingival fibromatosis and craniofacial dysmorphism. It has been described in two siblings. Craniofacial dysmorphism consists of relative macrocephaly, bushy eyebrows with synophrys, hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, flattened nasal bridge and high arched palate. The patients have normal intellect.The condition seems to be hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
absent thumb with short stature and immunodeficiency syndrome	An exceedingly rare autosomal recessive immune disease with characteristics of thumb aplasia, short stature with skeletal abnormalities and combined immunodeficiency described in three sibships from two possibly related families. The skeletal abnormalities included unfused olecranon and the immunodeficiency manifested with severe chickenpox and chronic candidiasis. No new cases have been reported since 1978.
autosomal dominant palmoplantar keratoderma and congenital alopecia (disorder)	A rare genetic skin disorder with the absence of scalp and body hair and palmoplantar keratoderma, without other hand complications. To date, ten individuals have been reported. Usually presents during infancy with manifestations of fading of facial, scalp and body hair within the first months of life without subsequent re-growth. Body and facial keratosis pilaris are additional features that appear in the following years. Palmoplantar keratoderma develops during infancy and may have an unusual pattern. The genetic basis is unknown. Transmission appears to be autosomal dominant.
cleft palate with short stature and vertebral anomaly syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in a father and son with the association of cleft palate, peculiar facies (asymmetrical appearance, inner epicanthal folds, short nose, anteverted nostrils, low and back-oriented ears, thin upper lip and micrognathism), short stature, short neck , vertebral anomalies and intellectual disability. The transmission is presumed to be autosomal dominant. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
mathieu de broca bony syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in a father and son with the association of cleft palate, peculiar facies (asymmetrical appearance, inner epicanthal folds, short nose, anteverted nostrils, low and back-oriented ears, thin upper lip and micrognathism), short stature, short neck , vertebral anomalies and intellectual disability. The transmission is presumed to be autosomal dominant. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
late-onset junctional epidermolysis bullosa	A subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa the condition occurs in childhood or young adulthood. 22 patients in 12 families have been reported to date. Blistering occurs at first around nails, accompanied by nail dystrophy and shedding, and then affects the hands and feet and, to a lesser extent, the elbows, knees, along with atrophic scarring. Other manifestations include disappearance of dermatoglyphs and palmoplantar hyperhidrosis. Extracutaneous involvement is restricted to soft tissue abnormalities of the oral cavity and enamel defects with development of caries. COL17A1 mutations have recently been described in an affected family. The condition follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
lethal hemolytic anemia and genital anomaly syndrome	Waters-West syndrome is characterized by the association of lethal non-spherocytic, non-immune hemolytic anemia with abnormalities of the external genitalia (micropenis and hypospadias), flat occiput, dimpled earlobes, deep plantar creases, and increased space between the first and second toes. It has been described only once in two brothers who died a few hours after birth. The second-born infant had massive ascites and hepatosplenomegaly. The mother had two spontaneous abortions but gave birth to a normal girl, suggesting an autosomal or X-linked recessive mode of inheritance.
malignant hyperthermia with arthrogryposis and torticollis syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare arthrogryposis syndrome, described in only two pairs of siblings from two unrelated families to date with the association of arthrogryposis, congenital torticollis, dysmorphic facial features (i.e. asymmetry of the face, myopathic facial movements, ptosis, posteriorly rotated ears, cleft palate), progressive scoliosis and episodes of malignant hyperthermia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
microcephalus and intellectual disability with phalangeal and neurological anomaly syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of microcephaly, severe intellectual deficit, phalangeal anomalies (cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers, toe brachyclinodactyly and nail hypoplasia) and neurological manifestations (epilepsy, spastic/dystonic paraplegia and brisk reflexes). Hypotonia, pre and postnatal growth retardation, a characteristic face (broad forehead with a low frontal hair line, a broad nasal bridge and prominent columella, hypoplastic alae nasi, short philtrum, and a straight mouth with thin lips and downward slanting palpebral fissures) and optic atrophy were also reported.
woods crouchman huson syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of microcephaly, severe intellectual deficit, phalangeal anomalies (cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers, toe brachyclinodactyly and nail hypoplasia) and neurological manifestations (epilepsy, spastic/dystonic paraplegia and brisk reflexes). Hypotonia, pre and postnatal growth retardation, a characteristic face (broad forehead with a low frontal hair line, a broad nasal bridge and prominent columella, hypoplastic alae nasi, short philtrum, and a straight mouth with thin lips and downward slanting palpebral fissures) and optic atrophy were also reported.
steatocystoma multiplex with natal tooth syndrome	The syndrome is characterized by generalized multiple steatocystoma and natal teeth. It has been described in a five-generation Chinese family with at least 21 affected patients. The same condition has been reported in one additional sporadic case. Autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested.
primary ciliary dyskinesia and retinitis pigmentosa syndrome	An X-linked ciliary dysfunction disorder of both the respiratory epithelium and photoreceptors of the retina. This leads to ocular problems including mild night blindness, constriction of the visual field and scotopic and photopic ERG responses reduced to 30-60%. It is also associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia manifestations including chronic bronchorrhoea with bronchoectasis and chronic sinusitis along with sensorineural hearing loss.
sparse hair with short stature and skin anomaly syndrome	This syndrome combines short stature, sparse hair, skin hyperpigmentation and urticaria-like reactions on the hands and arms. An upper central incisor, hypoplastic thumbs and/or palmoplantar hyperkeratosis may also be present. It is thought to be a rare form of ectodermal dysplasia and has been described at least once in a mother and her three sons. Transmission is autosomal dominant, or X-linked.
sparse hair with short stature and skin anomaly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome combines short stature, sparse hair, skin hyperpigmentation and urticaria-like reactions on the hands and arms. An upper central incisor, hypoplastic thumbs and/or palmoplantar hyperkeratosis may also be present. It is thought to be a rare form of ectodermal dysplasia and has been described at least once in a mother and her three sons. Transmission is autosomal dominant, or X-linked.
x-linked intellectual disability and epilepsy with progressive joint contracture and facial dysmorphism syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, epilepsy, facial dysmorphism and progressive joint contractures. It has been described in two boys. Hypotonia and feeding problems at birth were also reported. The mode of transmission is X-linked.
x-linked intellect dis hypotonia w/ facial dysmorphism & aggres behavior synd	This syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit, hypotonia, mild facial dysmorphism and aggressive behaviour. It has been described in 10 male members spanning four generations of one family. The facial dysmorphism includes a high forehead, prominent ears, and a small pointed chin. Height and head circumference are reduced. This disorder is transmitted as an X-linked recessive trait and the causative gene maps to Xp22.
x-linked intellectual disability with dysmorphism and cerebral atrophy syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with facial dysmorphism, patella luxation and abnormal growth of the teeth. It has been described in eight males from multiple generations of one family. The locus for the causative gene for this syndrome has been located to the region between p11.22 and p21.1 on the X chromosome.
prieto badia mulas syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with facial dysmorphism, patella luxation and abnormal growth of the teeth. It has been described in eight males from multiple generations of one family. The locus for the causative gene for this syndrome has been located to the region between p11.22 and p21.1 on the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability with cubitus valgus and dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of moderate intellectual deficit, marked cubitus valgus, mild microcephaly, a short philtrum, deep-set eyes, downslanting palpebral fissures and multiple nevi. Less than ten individuals have been described so far. Transmission is thought to be X-linked recessive.
autosomal recessive palmoplantar keratoderma and congenital alopecia wallis type	A rare genetic skin disorder with characteristics of congenital alopecia and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis. It is usually associated with cataracts, progressive sclerodactyly and pseudo-ainhum. To date the syndrome has been reported in two families (seven affected individuals) plus an additional sporadic patient was likely affected by the same condition. Usually presents during infancy with manifestations of fading of facial, scalp and body hair within the first months of life without subsequent re-growth. Body and facial keratosis pilaris are additional features that appear in the following years. Skin thickening of palms and soles develops during infancy and may have an unusual pattern affecting the two sides of fingers and palms, but usually sparing the palmar surfaces.
carpenter waziri syndrome	Un síndrome de retardo mental ligado al cromosoma X perteneciente al grupo de afecciones que se manifiestan con déficit intelectual con facies hipotónica. Se desconoce la prevalencia pero el síndrome se describió originalmente en 1988 en seis varones de tres generaciones de la misma familia. En los varones afectados, el síndrome se caracteriza por rasgos faciales toscos (labios prominentes, cejas pobladas, dientes ampliamente espaciados y puente nasal ancho y deprimido con punta de la nariz ancha), braquidactilia con ensanchamiento de las falanges distales, baja estatura y déficit intelectual moderado. El síndrome se produce por mutaciones en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3). El síndrome se transmite como rasgo recesivo ligado al cromosoma X con inactivación sesgada del cromosoma X en las mujeres portadoras.
carpenter waziri syndrome (disorder)	Un síndrome de retardo mental ligado al cromosoma X perteneciente al grupo de afecciones que se manifiestan con déficit intelectual con facies hipotónica. Se desconoce la prevalencia pero el síndrome se describió originalmente en 1988 en seis varones de tres generaciones de la misma familia. En los varones afectados, el síndrome se caracteriza por rasgos faciales toscos (labios prominentes, cejas pobladas, dientes ampliamente espaciados y puente nasal ancho y deprimido con punta de la nariz ancha), braquidactilia con ensanchamiento de las falanges distales, baja estatura y déficit intelectual moderado. El síndrome se produce por mutaciones en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3). El síndrome se transmite como rasgo recesivo ligado al cromosoma X con inactivación sesgada del cromosoma X en las mujeres portadoras.
trigonocephaly with broad thumb syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal trigonocephaly and multiple anomalies including craniosynostosis, shallow orbits, unusual nose, deviation of the terminal phalanges of fingers and broad toes with duplication of the terminal phalanx. It has been described in a mother and her son. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
trigonocephaly with bifid nose and acral anomaly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of trigonocephaly, brachycephaly, bulbous nose (bifid at the tip), micrognathia, macrostomia, hypotonia and relatively broad metatarsals and phalanges. It has been described in a brother and his sister born to consanguineous parents.
monosomy 14q11.2	A recently described syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, hypotonia and facial dysmorphism. It has been clinically and molecularly described in 3 patients. All three children have similar dysmorphic features, including widely-spaced eyes, short nose with flat nasal bridge, long philtrum, prominent Cupid's bow, full lower lip and similar auricular anomalies. This syndrome is caused by an interstitial deletion encompassing 14q11.2.
x-linked intellectual disability abidi type (diagnosis)	This syndrome has characteristics of X-linked intellectual deficit and mild variable manifestations, including short stature, small head circumference, sloping forehead, hearing loss, abnormally shaped ears, and small testes. It has been described in eight affected males from three generations.
x-linked intellectual disability armfield type	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficiency, short stature, seizures and small hands and feet. It has been described in six males from three generations of one family. Three of them also had cataracts and or glaucoma and two of them had cleft palate. The locus has been mapped to the terminal 8 Mb of Xq28.
x-linked intellectual disability miles carpenter type	X-linked mental retardation Miles-Carpenter type has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, microcephaly, exotropia and low digital arches. It has been described in four male members of one family. Joint hypermobility, distal muscle wasting, hypogonadism and rocker bottom feet were also reported. Low digital arches and exotropia were described in several female members of the family. Transmission is X-linked and the causative gene has been mapped to Xq13-q22.
x-linked intellectual disability pai type (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of dysmorphism with intellectual deficit. It has been described in four generations of one family. Premature death was reported in the affected males. Transmission is X-linked recessive and the causative gene has been located to the q28 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability stoll type	This syndrome has manifestations of intellectual deficit, short stature and characteristic facies (hypertelorism, prominent forehead, frontal bossing, a broad nasal tip and anteverted nares). It has been described in four males from three generations of the same family. Two females from this family also displayed intellectual deficit and the characteristic facies. Transmission is X-linked.
x-linked intellectual disability stocco dos santos type	This syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit with hyperactivity, language delay, congenital hip luxation, short stature, kyphosis and recurrent respiratory infections. Aggressive behaviour and frequent epileptic seizures may also be present. The syndrome has been described in four boys from the same family. Transmission is X-linked and is caused by mutations in the KIAA1202 gene, localised to the Xp11.2 region.
x-linked intellectual disability stevenson type	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, hypotonia, absent deep tendon reflexes, tapered fingers and excessive fingerprint arches, genu valgum, a characteristic face and small teeth. It has been described in four males from two generations of one family. The causative gene appears to be located in the q13 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability stevenson type (diagnosis)	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, hypotonia, absent deep tendon reflexes, tapered fingers and excessive fingerprint arches, genu valgum, a characteristic face and small teeth. It has been described in four males from two generations of one family. The causative gene appears to be located in the q13 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability, siderius type	This syndrome is characterised by mild to borderline intellectual deficit associated with cleft lip/palate. Preaxial polydactyly, large hands and cryptorchidism are sometimes present. The syndrome has been described in seven boys from two families. Transmission is X-linked and the syndrome is caused by mutations in the PHF8 gene, localised to the p11.21 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability shashi type	This syndrome has manifestations of moderate intellectual deficit, obesity, macroorchidism and a characteristic facies (large ears, a prominent lower lip and puffy eyelids). It has been described in nine boys from two families. Transmission is X-linked and the causative gene has been localised to the q21.3-q27 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability seemanova type (diagnosis)	This syndrome has characteristics of microcephaly, intellectual deficit, growth retardation and hypogenitalism. It has been described in four boys from one family. A characteristic facies and ophthalmologic anomalies were also present and included microphthalmia, microcornea and cataract. Transmission is X-linked.
ahn lerman sagie syndrome	An extremely rare mitochondrial disorder with characteristics of facial dysmorphism similar to that seen in Zellweger syndrome. These features include frontal bossing, high forehead, up slanting palpebral fissures, hypoplastic supraorbital ridges, and epicanthal folds and in addition, pale skin, profound hypotonia, developmental delay and minor metabolic anomalies. No peroxisomal defects have been reported. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
lissencephaly due to tubulin alpha 1a mutation	A congenital cortical development anomaly due to abnormal neuronal migration involving neocortical and hippocampal lamination, corpus callosum, cerebellum and brainstem. A large clinical spectrum can be observed, from children with severe epilepsy and intellectual and motor deficit to cases with severe cerebral dysgenesis in the antenatal period leading to pregnancy termination due to the severity of the prognosis.
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with hypotonia and lactic acidosis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, muscular hypotonia and the presence of lactic acidosis at birth. It has been described in two sisters (both of whom died within the first year of life) from a non-consanguineous Turkish family. The syndrome is caused by a homozygous point mutation in the exon 3A of the SLC25A3 gene encoding a mitochondrial membrane transporter.
isolated cryptophthalmos	A congenital abnormality in which the eyelids are absent and skin covers the ocular bulb, which is often microphthalmic. Six cases of complete bilateral cryptophthalmia have been described. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
oral-facial-digital syndrome type 11 (diagnosis)	An extremely rare, sporadic form of Orofaciodigital syndrome with only a few reported cases and characteristics of facial (blepharophimosis, bulbous nasal tip, broad nasal bridge, downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears) and skeletal (post-axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae) malformations along with severe intellectual disability, deafness and congenital heart defects.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 11 (disorder)	An extremely rare, sporadic form of Orofaciodigital syndrome with only a few reported cases and characteristics of facial (blepharophimosis, bulbous nasal tip, broad nasal bridge, downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears) and skeletal (post-axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae) malformations along with severe intellectual disability, deafness and congenital heart defects.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 11	An extremely rare, sporadic form of Orofaciodigital syndrome with only a few reported cases and characteristics of facial (blepharophimosis, bulbous nasal tip, broad nasal bridge, downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears) and skeletal (post-axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae) malformations along with severe intellectual disability, deafness and congenital heart defects.
acral self-healing collodion baby (disorder)	A variant of self-healing collodion baby with manifestation of the presence at birth of a collodion membrane only at the extremities. Only 2 cases were described in the literature. In both cases, the babies healed soon after birth. In one case, molecular analysis was performed that revealed mutations in the TGM1 gene encoding transglutaminase 1, an enzyme involved in the cornification of the stratum corneum.
familial median cleft of upper and lower lip (disorder)	A rare and isolated orofacial defect with manifestation of incomplete median clefts of both the lower lip (limited to the vermilion, with no muscle involvement) and upper lip (with muscle involvement), double labial frenulum and fusion of the upper gingival and upper labial mucosa (resulting in a shallow upper vestibular fold), in addition to poor dental alignment, and increased interdental distance between the lower and upper median incisors. Variable expressivity has been reported in an affected family.
tapered teeth	A tooth with a crown that narrows from proximal toward the incisal edge. Tapering of teeth typically involves incisors. [PMID:31468724]
simpson-golabi-behmel syndrome	An X-linked recessive syndrome caused by mutation(s) in the GPC3, OFD1, or rarely the GPC4 gene, encoding glypican 3, oral-facial-digital syndrome 1 protein, and glypican 4, respectively. The condition is characterized by macrosomia, coarse facies, cryptorchidism, congenital heart, kidney, liver, spleen, and musculoskeletal abnormalities.
microcephaly, seizure, intellectual disability, heart disease syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, a cardiac anomaly, micropenis, hypothyroidism, epileptic seizures and skeletal anomalies. It has been described in two males.
endocrine-cerebro-osteodysplasia syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of various anomalies of the endocrine, cerebral, and skeletal systems resulting in neonatal mortality. Six cases from consanguineous parents have been described. Endocrine anomalies include hypoplasia of the adrenal and pituitary glands. Skeletal anomalies include micromelia, syndactyly, brachydactyly and ulnar deviation of hands. Facial anomalies, such as midface hypoplasia, micrognathia, and a flat and wide nasal bridge, are also observed. The disease is caused by mutations in the ICK gene, encoding an intestinal cell kinase. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
hypotrichosis with juvenile macular degeneration syndrome	A very rare syndrome that presents with short and sparse scalp hair from birth or the first months of life with no subsequent growth during life. During the first to third decades of life, visual acuity decreases because of progressive macular degeneration, leading in many cases to blindness between the second and fourth decades of life. The hair phenotype does not improve significantly with age, even though diffuse alopecia in infancy can evolve towards short and sparse hair in puberty. Caused by mutations in the CDH3 gene (16q22.1), encoding P-cadherin. P-cadherin is part of adherens junctions in various epithelia including the hair follicular epithelium. Inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.
macrostomia, preauricular tag, external ophthalmoplegia syndrome	Syndrome that combines the features of macrostomia or abnormal mouth contour, preauricular tags, uni- or bilateral ptosis and external ophthalmoplegia. It is described in nine members of a Brazilian family. It is a phenotype belonging to the so-called oculoauriculovertebral spectrum, resulting from a branchial arch anomaly. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
microcephalic osteodysplastic dysplasia saul wilson type (disorder)	A skeletal dysplasia with distinct facial phenotype, short stature, brachydactyly, clubfoot deformities, cataracts, and microcephaly. It has been described in four patients. Facial features include frontal bossing with a depression over the metopic suture, a narrow nasal root with a beaked nose, and midfacial hypoplasia with prominent eyes. Characteristic radiographic findings are observed (including irregularities of the vertebral bodies, hypoplasia of the odontoid process, short phalanges, coning several epiphyses).
basel vanagaite sirota syndrome	A syndrome of abnormal cortical development with characteristics of severe prenatal polyhydramnios, postnatal microcephaly, lissencephaly, upper limb micromelia, dysmorphic facies (coarse face, hypertrichosis, and short nose with long philtrum), intractable seizures, and early death. Hypoparathyroidism was noted in one case.
embryopathy caused by mycophenolate mofetil (disorder)	A malformative syndrome due to the teratogenic effect of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), an effective immunosuppressive agent widely used for the prevention of organ rejection after organ transplantation. To date the majority of cases have been offspring of women who received a solid organ transplant. The newborn or fetus generally has external ear anomalies. Cleft lip-palate with micrognathia is frequently observed. Aberrant orofacial cleft has been observed in one case. Ocular anomalies, such as microphthalmia and iris or chorioretinal coloboma are also frequent. Distal limbs anomalies as well as congenital malformations of the heart, kidneys and/or central nervous system may also be observed.
polyvalvular heart disease syndrome	Rare syndrome with characteristics of the combination of polyvalvular heart disease, short stature, facial anomalies and intellectual deficit. Dysplasia may involve the mitral, tricuspidal, aortic and pulmonary valves. Dysmorphic facial anomalies are usually mild, vary among families and include a dolichocephalic face, broad forehead, ptosis, prominent nose, crowded teeth, high-arched palate and posteriorly angulated and everted ears. The severity of short stature is variable, as is the presence of intellectual deficit. The condition seems to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
pili torti onychodysplasia syndrome	A form of ectodermal dysplasia with characteristics of dystrophy of the distal part of the nails and trichodysplasia. It has been described in only one family. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
renier gabreels jasper syndrome (disorder)	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X perteneciente al grupo de afecciones con la asociación de déficit intelectual con facies hipotónica. Se desconoce la prevalencia pero el síndrome se describió por primera vez en 1982 en cinco varones de dos generacioness de una familia (tres hermanos y dos de sus tíos maternos). El síndrome se caracteriza por la asociación de microcefalia, espasticidad, epilepsia, sordera y déficit intelectual severo. Las mujeres portadoras exhiben microcefalia e inteligencia subnormal. La transmisión está ligada al cromosoma X.
terminal osseous dysplasia and pigmentary defect syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of malformation of the hands and feet, pigmentary skin lesions on the face and scalp and digital fibromatosis. It has been described in 18 females, six of whom came from four different generations of the same family. Phenotypic expression is very heterogeneous. In the majority of patients, the bone dysplasia is limited to the hands and feet but shortening and/or bowing of the bones of the arms and legs has been reported in severe cases. The pigmentary lesions and digital fibromatosis appear a few months after birth. There is evidence that the syndrome is caused by mutation in the FLNA gene. The syndrome is transmitted as an in utero male-lethal X-linked dominant trait, explaining the large number of miscarriages reported in the affected families.
severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, anal anomaly, distal phalangeal hypoplasia syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, epilepsy, hypoplasia of the terminal phalanges and an anteriorly displaced anus. It has been described in two sisters born to consanguineous parents. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and appears to be caused by anomalies in chromosome regions on chromosome 1 and chromosome 14.
severe generalized recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	The most severe subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa characterised by generalised cutaneous and mucosal blistering and scarring associated with severe deformities and major extracutaneous involvement. Blisters develop at birth or during the neonatal period and affect all the body as well as the oral and gastrointestinal mucosa. Eye involvement is frequent and includes blepharitis and corneal blisters that can lead to loss of vision. Oesophageal stricture is frequent and result in severe dysphagia. Nearly all patients develop at least one aggressive squamous cell carcinoma. The disease is caused by null mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1) that usually lead to a lack of functional collagen VII, the main constituent of anchoring fibrils that anchor the basement membrane to the dermis. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
keratosis follicularis, dwarfism, cerebral atrophy syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome that is characterized by generalized keratosis follicularis, severe proportionate dwarfism and cerebral atrophy. It has been described in six males from one family (three boys and three maternal uncles). Generalized alopecia and microcephaly were also present.
pericardial and diaphragmatic defect syndrome	Pericardial and diaphragmatic defect is a rare combination of absent pericardium with congenital diaphragmatic defect. It has been reported in less than 20 patients. The absence of pericardic tissue is complete or partial. The diaphragmatic hernia is most often left-sided. Some patients have additional digestive tract malformations. The few reported cases were all sporadic except in a family in which the recurrence of these anomalies in two siblings and the parental consanguinity suggested an autosomal recessive inheritance.
neuroectodermal endocrine syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of the combination of endocrine and neuroectodermal abnormalities. These abnormalities include low growth hormone levels, delayed puberty, type II diabetes mellitus, mild intellectual deficit, sensorineural deafness, characteristic facial appearance and alopecia. It has been described in four siblings from Myanmar.
oerter friedman anderson syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the combination of endocrine and neuroectodermal abnormalities. These abnormalities include low growth hormone levels, delayed puberty, type II diabetes mellitus, mild intellectual deficit, sensorineural deafness, characteristic facial appearance and alopecia. It has been described in four siblings from Myanmar.
nephrosis, deafness, urinary tract, digital malformation syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of variable anomalies of the urinary tract, thumbs and big toes, deafness and nephrosis. It has been described in five brothers. The mode of transmission has not been clearly established but seems to be either autosomal recessive or X-linked dominant.
methimazole embryofetopathy	A teratogenic embryofetopathy that results from maternal exposition to methimazole in the first trimester of pregnancy. Methimazole is an antithyroid thionamide drug used for the treatment of Graves' disease. In the infant, methimazole may result in choanal atresia, oesophageal atresia, omphalocele, omphalomesenteric duct anomalies, congenital heart disease (such as ventricular septal defect), renal system malformations and aplasia cutis. Additional features that may be observed include facial dysmorphism (short up slanting palpebral fissures, a broad nasal bridge with a small nose and a broad forehead) and athelia.
ebs-ar krt14 - epidermolysis bullosa simplex autosomal recessive keratin 14	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterised by generalised or, less frequently, localised acral blistering. 19 cases have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth. Milia are rare but atrophic scarring and dystrophic nails usually occur, along with focal keratoderma (palms and soles) and rarely ichthyotic plaques. Extracutaneous involvement is common, including anaemia, growth retardation, oral cavity abnormalities (blisters and erosions, and caries) and constipation. Due to mutations in the KRT14 gene (17q12-q21), encoding keratin 14. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
keratosis palmaris et plantaris with clinodactyly syndrome	Syndrome with the association of palmoplantar keratosis and clinodactyly of the fifth finger. Less than 20 cases have been described in the literature so far, and the majority of reported patients were of Mexican origin. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
congenital ichthyosis with hypotrichosis syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital ichthyosis and hypotrichosis. It has been described in three members of a consanguineous Arab Israeli family. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and is caused by a missense mutation in the ST14 gene, encoding the recently identified protease, matriptase on chromosome 11q24. Analysis of skin samples from the patients suggests that this enzyme plays a role in epidermal desquamation.
hereditary inclusion body myopathy type 3	Disease characterized by congenital joint contractures (normalizing during early childhood), external ophthalmoplegia and proximal muscle weakness. In adult cases, the muscular weakness is progressive. Nineteen affected individuals have been described from one large family. The causative gene, the hereditary inclusion-body myopathy (IBM3) gene, has been mapped to chromosome region 17p13.1. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
frontonasal dysplasia with alopecia and genital anomaly syndrome (disorder)	A phenotype of frontonasal dysplasia associated with total alopecia and hypogonadism. Four cases have been described in two families. The frontonasal dysplasia includes coronal craniosynostosis, large skull defect with aplasia of ethmoid and nasal bones, hypertelorism, severely depressed nasal bridge and bifid nasal tip. Affected individuals have mild to moderate intellectual deficit. A homozygous nonsense mutation in the human aristaless-like 4 (ALX4, 11p11.2) gene was identified in both families. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
46,xy partial gonadal dysgenesis (disorder)	A disorder of sex development associated with anomalies in gonadal development that results in genital ambiguity of variable degree ranging from almost female phenotype to almost male phenotype in a patient carrying a male 46,XY karyotype. The disorder is heterogeneous and associated with partial abnormality of both Leydig cell and Sertoli cell function that may result from deletions or point mutations in the SRY gene or dose sensitive sex (NR0B1) locus duplication on the X chromosome. More important are mutations in steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1, NR5A1, Ad4BP). SF-1 is a nuclear receptor and regulator of multiple genes involved in adrenal and gonadal development, steroidogenesis, and the reproductive axis. Therefore, affected patients may also have adrenal insufficiency. Syndromic forms have been associated with WT-1 mutations, which lead to variable testicular dysgenesis and an increased risk of renal abnormalities, namely Wilms tumors or nephrotic syndrome.
infantile osteopetrosis with neuroaxonal dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of osteopetrosis, agenesis of the corpus callosum, cerebral atrophy and a small hippocampus. It has been described in a brother and a sister born to nonconsanguineous Caucasian parents. The children died at the ages of 1 and 9 months, respectively. Several additional cases combining axonal dystrophy and osteopetrosis have been described.
pelvis syndrome	PELVIS is an acronym defining the association of Perineal haemangioma, External genitalia malformations, Lipomyelomeningocele, Vesicorenal abnormalities, Imperforate anus and Skin tag. Eleven cases have been reported.
atrial septal defect, atrioventricular conduction defect syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare genetic congenital heart disease with the presence of atrial septal defect, mostly of the ostium secundum type, associated with conduction anomalies like atrioventricular block, atrial fibrillation or right bundle branch block. There is evidence this disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the NKX2-5 gene on chromosome 5q35.
embryopathy caused by retinoid (disorder)	A teratogenic disorder caused by exposure to retinoid during the first trimester of pregnancy, carrying a risk of fetal malformations of approximately 20%, including central nervous system, craniofacial, ear, thymic, cardiac and limb anomalies.
aica (5-amino-4-imidazole carboxamide ) ribosiduria	An extremely severe inborn error of purine biosynthesis with clinical characteristics in the single reported case to date of profound intellectual deficit, epilepsy, dysmorphic features of the knees, elbows and shoulders and congenital blindness. In the one reported case the disease was caused by compound heterozygous mutation in the ATIC gene on chromosome 2q35.
rdeb-o - recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa-generalised other	A subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa characterized by generalized cutaneous and mucosal blistering that is not associated with severe deformities.The disease manifests at birth or during the neonatal period with generalized blistering. Aplasia cutis congenita can also be observed at birth. The disease is caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1) that lead to an alteration of function or a reduction in the amounts of collagen VII. This impairs collagen VII assembly into anchoring fibrils which anchor the basement membrane to the underlying dermis. This in turn causes reduced skin resistance to minor trauma. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
cerebral gigantism jaw cysts syndrome	Syndrome that is characterized by cerebral gigantism associated with a jaw cyst basal cell nevoid syndrome. It has been reported in less than ten patients from two families. Neurological manifestations include hydrocephalus, ventricular malformation, a cerebellar syndrome, intracranial calcification, oculomotor disturbances and in some cases mild peripheral nervous disorders.
centripetalis recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (disorder)	An extremely rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of blistering, which begins acrally and then progressively, spreads toward the trunk. Less than ten cases have been reported to date. Onset is usually at birth or during infancy. The centripetal progression of blister formation is slow and occurs over decades. Healing of blisters is associated with milia formation, atrophic scarring and nail dystrophy. Mucosal involvement is usually absent. The disease is caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). Mutations in this gene lead to an alteration in function or to a reduction in the amounts of collagen VII. This impairs its assembly into anchoring fibrils that anchor the basement membrane to the underlying dermis. The disease follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
congenital muscular dystrophy paradas type	An early-onset form of dysferlinopathy presenting with postnatal hypotonia, weakness in the proximal lower limbs and neck flexor muscles at birth and delayed motor development. To date, two cases have been described. The disease is caused by a mutation in the dysferlin gene (DYSF) coding for a protein involved in membrane repair. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
bathing suit ichthyosis	A rare variant of autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis. Less than 20 patients are reported in the literature. Large dark scales are present on warmer skin areas such as the trunk, the scalp, and the axillary region. On affected areas, the scales are similar to those observed in lamellar ichthyosis. Caused by specific thermo-sensitive mutations in the TGM1 gene (encoding transglutaminase 1, involved in the cornification of the stratum corneum). Affected skin areas, show a clearly reduced enzyme activity in contrast to healthy skin areas that demonstrate an almost normal enzyme activity. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
congenital enterocyte heparan sulfate deficiency	Disease that is characterized by massive enteric protein loss, secretory diarrhea and intolerance to enteral feeds during the first few weeks of life. It has been described in three male infants. Histochemical studies revealed a complete absence of enterocyte heparan sulfate. All three infants required total parenteral nutrition and repeated albumin infusions.
camos (cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation, optic atrophy, skin abnormalities) syndrome	Syndrome with the association of a non-progressive congenital ataxia, severe intellectual deficit, optic atrophy and structural anomalies of the skin vessels. It has been described in five children from a large consanguineous Lebanese family. Short stature and microcephaly were also reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
scalp defect postaxial polydactyly syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital scalp defects and postaxial polydactyly type A. It is an extremely rare condition. The syndrome has variable manifestations with one affected person with both congenital scalp defects and postaxial polydactyly type A, 4 people with scalp defects only and 3 people who had postaxial polydactyly only. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
cataract, congenital heart disease, neural tube defect syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of sacral neural tube defects resulting in tethered cord, atrial and/or ventricular septal heart defects (that are detected in infancy), bilateral symmetrical hyperopia, rapidly progressive early childhood cataracts, bilateral aphakic glaucoma and abnormal facial features (low frontal hairline, small ears, short philtrum, prominent, widely spaced central incisors, and micrognathia). Hypotonia, growth and developmental delay, seizures and joint limitation are also reported.
x-linked intellectual disability, nascimento type (diagnosis)	A rare X-linked intellectual disability syndrome characterised by intellectual disability (with severe speech impairment), a myxoedematous appearance, dysmorphic facial features (including large head, synophrys, prominent supraorbital ridges, almond-shaped and deep-set eyes, large ears, wide mouth with everted lower lip and downturned lip corners), low posterior hairline, short, broad neck, marked general hirsutism and abnormal hair whorls, skin changes (e.g. dry skin or hypopigmented spots), widely spaced nipples, obesity, micropenis, onychodystrophy and seizures. Caused by mutation in the UBE2A gene on chromosome Xq24.
cortical blindness, intellectual disability, polydactyly syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of cortical blindness, intellectual deficit and polydactyly. This combination was found in three children of first-cousin parents. The facial features included prominent forehead, short nose, long philtrum and microretrognathia. Two of the three children died of acute gastroenteritis. Growth and psychomotor development were severely delayed.
split hand, obstructive uropathy, spina bifida, diaphragmatic defect syndrome (disorder)	An exceedingly rare severe congenital genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of split hand/split foot, hydronephrosis, and spina bifida. Spinal and skeletal manifestations were thoracolumbar scoliosis, spina bifida (spina bifida occulta or spina bifida cystic), Bochdalek diaphragmatic hernia and radial defects. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
czeizel losonci syndrome	An exceedingly rare severe congenital genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of split hand/split foot, hydronephrosis, and spina bifida. Spinal and skeletal manifestations were thoracolumbar scoliosis, spina bifida (spina bifida occulta or spina bifida cystic), Bochdalek diaphragmatic hernia and radial defects. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
split hand, urinary anomalies, spina bifida syndrome	An exceedingly rare severe congenital genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of split hand/split foot, hydronephrosis, and spina bifida. Spinal and skeletal manifestations were thoracolumbar scoliosis, spina bifida (spina bifida occulta or spina bifida cystic), Bochdalek diaphragmatic hernia and radial defects. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
46,xx disorder of sex development with skeletal anomalies syndrome	Syndrome that is characterized by primary amenorrhea, ambiguous external genitalia and bone abnormalities for example hypoplasia of the mandibular condyles, hypoplasia of the maxilla, ulnar dislocation of the radial heads. It has been described in two sisters born to consanguineous parents.
46,xx disorder of sex development with anorectal anomalies syndrome (disorder)	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome, with characteristics of normal female karyotype, normal ovaries, male or ambiguous genitalia, urinary tract malformations (ranging from bilateral renal agenesis to mild unilateral hydronephrosis), mullerian duct anomalies (for example complete absence of the uterus and vagina, bicornuate uterus) and imperforate anus.
acral deb (dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa)	A very rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of blistering confined primarily to the hands and feet. The disease usually manifests during infancy with trauma-induced blisters limited to extremities. Healing of blisters is associated with milia formation, atrophic scarring and dystrophic nails. There is no extracutaneous involvement. Caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). Mutations in this gene lead to an alteration in function of collagen VII. This impairs its assembly into anchoring fibrils that anchor the basement membrane to the underlying dermis. Transmission is autosomal dominant (acral dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa) or autosomal recessive (acral recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa).
permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus with cerebellar agenesis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal diabetes mellitus associated with cerebellar and/or pancreatic agenesis. It has been described in four patients: two sisters and their female cousin belonging to a consanguineous Pakistani family, and one unrelated case (also born to consanguineous parents). Patients also present with facial dysmorphism (a triangular face, small chin, low set ears), flexion contractures of the arms and legs, very little subcutaneous fat and optic nerve hypoplasia. One of the patients had pancreatic agenesis and the others were suspected of having pancreatic hypoplasia. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder. It is caused by mutations in the PTF1A gene (10p12.3). Prenatal diagnosis is possible by demonstration of the absence of the cerebellum and severe intra-uterine growth retardation. All patients died in the neonatal period.
moyamoya angiopathy, short stature, facial dysmorphism, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism syndrome	A very rare hereditary neurological dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of moyamoya disease, short stature of postnatal onset and stereotypical facial dysmorphism. The syndrome is extremely rare and has been reported in three unrelated families to date, with 10 affected individuals in several generations. These families are not from Japan or Asia, whereas in general the incidence of moyamoya disease is highest in Japan and other Asian countries, in comparison with other parts of the world. Affected patients are all male (X-linked inheritance) and have moyamoya angiopathy (progressive stenosis of the terminal portion of the intracranial internal carotid arteries), short stature, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and other variable manifestations.. The genetic cause appears to involve Xq28 deletions removing MTCP1/CMC4 and BRCC3 (Xq28) .The specific pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this disorder remain obscure, but appear to involve alteration in DNA repair.
ectodermal dysplasia, intellectual disability, central nervous system malformation syndrome (disorder)	A rare multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of the triad of ectodermal dysplasia (mostly hypohidrotic with dry skin and reduced sweating and sparse, fair scalp hair, eyebrows and eyelashes), severe intellectual disability and variable central nervous system anomalies (cerebellar hypoplasia, dilatation of ventricles, corpus callosum agenesis, Dandy-Walker malformation). Distinct craniofacial dysmorphism with macrocephaly, frontal bossing, midfacial hypoplasia and high arched or cleft palate as well as cryptorchidism, feeding difficulties and hypotonia is associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1998.
ectodermal dysplasia, intellectual disability, central nervous system malformation syndrome	A rare multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of the triad of ectodermal dysplasia (mostly hypohidrotic with dry skin and reduced sweating and sparse, fair scalp hair, eyebrows and eyelashes), severe intellectual disability and variable central nervous system anomalies (cerebellar hypoplasia, dilatation of ventricles, corpus callosum agenesis, Dandy-Walker malformation). Distinct craniofacial dysmorphism with macrocephaly, frontal bossing, midfacial hypoplasia and high arched or cleft palate as well as cryptorchidism, feeding difficulties and hypotonia is associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1998.
intermediate anorectal malformation (disorder)	A rare genetic non-syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation, resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis. The disorder has characteristics of a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies lying between the pubococcygeal line and the ischial tuberosity (e.g., rectovestibular and rectovaginal fistulas in the female, recto bulbar fistula in the male and anal agenesis). Patients may present with failure to pass meconium, failure to thrive, and recurrent urinary tract infections.
neutropenia, monocytopenia, deafness syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of neutropenia with myeloid marrow hypoplasia, monocytopenia and congenital deafness. It has been described in three siblings who suffered recurrent bacterial infections.
midline cleft of lower lip	Midline cleft of lower lip is a rare anomaly defined as Cleft No. 30 in the Tessier classification. Less than 70 cases have been described worldwide. These cases show a broad variation in severity, ranging from a simple notch in the vermillion to a complete cleft of the lip involving the tongue, the chin, the mandible, the supporting structures of the median of the neck and the manubrium sterni. The tongue is often attached to the cleft alveolar margin (ankyloglossia). Other associated anomalies were described in a number of cases such as absence or underdevelopment of the hyoid bone and/or thyroid cartilage. The only known familial cases were reported in 1936 with 18 affected individuals spanning four generations.
microbrachycephaly, ptosis, cleft lip syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of intellectual deficit, microbrachycephaly, hypotelorism, palpebral ptosis, a thin/long face, cleft lip, and anomalies of the lumbar vertebra, sacrum and pelvis. It has been described in two Brazilian sisters. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
microbrachycephaly, ptosis, cleft lip syndrome	Syndrome with the association of intellectual deficit, microbrachycephaly, hypotelorism, palpebral ptosis, a thin/long face, cleft lip, and anomalies of the lumbar vertebra, sacrum and pelvis. It has been described in two Brazilian sisters. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
hypospadias, hypertelorism, coloboma, deafness syndrome	A very rare syndrome consisting of short stature, facial dysmorphism, hypospadias and mixed hearing loss. It has been reported in two brothers. Dysmorphic features include hypertelorism, upper lid coloboma, midface hypoplasia, saddle nose deformity with a midline nasal cleft, thick philtrum and everted lower lip. The two brothers had developmental delay.
auricular abnormality, cleft lip, ocular abnormality syndrome (disorder)	The association of auricular abnormalities and cleft lip with or without cleft palate has been described in two siblings. One sibling had postauricular pits, profound myopia, nystagmus and retinal pigment abnormalities. The second sibling was a fetus (gestational age 23 weeks) with severe cleft lip, cleft palate and external ear abnormalities.
auricular abnormality, cleft lip, ocular abnormality syndrome	The association of auricular abnormalities and cleft lip with or without cleft palate has been described in two siblings. One sibling had postauricular pits, profound myopia, nystagmus and retinal pigment abnormalities. The second sibling was a fetus (gestational age 23 weeks) with severe cleft lip, cleft palate and external ear abnormalities.
ichthyosis, oral and digital anomalies syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of ichthyosis, unusual facies (small mouth with a thin upper lip and lower lip with a midline groove) and digital anomalies (tapered fingers with a lack of distal flexion creases and wide spacing between the second and third fingers). It has been described in two siblings born to first cousin parents. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
ichthyosis, oral and digital anomalies syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of ichthyosis, unusual facies (small mouth with a thin upper lip and lower lip with a midline groove) and digital anomalies (tapered fingers with a lack of distal flexion creases and wide spacing between the second and third fingers). It has been described in two siblings born to first cousin parents. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
congenital cataract ichthyosis syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital cataract associated with ichthyosis. It has been described in less than ten patients from two unrelated families. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
ectodermal dysplasia and sensorineural deafness syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, sensorineural hearing loss and contracture of the fifth fingers. It has been described in brother and sister born to consanguineous parents. The girl also presented with thoracic scoliosis.
multiple sclerosis, ichthyosis, factor viii deficiency syndrome	Syndrome that is characterised by the association of multiple sclerosis with lamellar ichthyosis and haematological anomalies (beta thalassaemia minor and a quantitative deficit of factor VIII-von Willebrand complex). Other clinical manifestations may include eye involvement (optic atrophy, diplopia), neuromuscular involvement (ataxia, pyramidal syndrome, gait disturbance) and sensory disorder. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
epilepsy telangiectasia syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, epilepsy, palpebral conjunctival telangiectasias and diminished serum immunoglobulin antibody, particular facies and a shortened fifth finger. It has been reported in six siblings from a Mexican family. It is probably transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
charlie m syndrome (disorder)	A rare bone developmental disorder belonging to a group of oromandibular limb hypogenesis syndromes. The major anomalies occuring commonly in this group are hypoplasia of the mandible, syndactyly and ectrodactyly, small mouth, cleft palate, hypodontia and facial paralysis. Patients with Charlie M syndrome also present with hypertelorism, absent or conically crowned incisors and variable degrees of hypodactyly of the hands and feet. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1976.
charlie m syndrome	A rare bone developmental disorder belonging to a group of oromandibular limb hypogenesis syndromes. The major anomalies occuring commonly in this group are hypoplasia of the mandible, syndactyly and ectrodactyly, small mouth, cleft palate, hypodontia and facial paralysis. Patients with Charlie M syndrome also present with hypertelorism, absent or conically crowned incisors and variable degrees of hypodactyly of the hands and feet. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1976.
dysmorphism, pectus carinatum, joint laxity syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of joint laxity, pectus carinatum and facial dysmorphism (mild frontal bossing, a beaked nose with a low nasal bridge, malar hypoplasia, chubby cheeks, a striking philtrum and arched upper lips). It has been described in two siblings. The mode of transmission is unknown.
encephalopathy, intracerebral calcification, retinal degeneration syndrome	A syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies with characteristics of encephalopathy that predominantly occurs in the first year of life and presents as psychomotor delay. Additional features of the disease include moderate dysmorphia, craniosynostosis, dwarfism (due to growth hormone deficiency), intellectual disability, spasticity, ataxia, retinal degeneration and adrenal and uterine hypoplasia. The disease has been described in only two families, with each family having two affected siblings. An autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1991.
dysmorphism, short stature, deafness, disorder of sex development syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of dysmorphism (including facial asymmetry, arched eyebrows, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, microtia, small nose with anteverted nostrils, micrognathia), deafness, cleft palate, male pseudohermaphroditism and growth and psychomotor retardation. It has been described in two siblings. The disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
dysmorphism, short stature, deafness, pseudohermaphroditism syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of dysmorphism (including facial asymmetry, arched eyebrows, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, microtia, small nose with anteverted nostrils, micrognathia), deafness, cleft palate, male pseudohermaphroditism and growth and psychomotor retardation. It has been described in two siblings. The disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
marfanoid habitus with autosomal recessive intellectual disability syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in four siblings and with characteristics of intellectual deficit, flat face and some skeletal features of Marfan syndrome such as tall stature, dolichostenomelia, arm span larger than height, arachnodactyly of hands and feet, little subcutaneous fat, muscle hypotonia and intellectual deficit.
absent tibia, polydactyly, arachnoid cyst syndrome (disorder)	A very rare constellation of multiple anomalies including absence or hypoplasia of the tibia. It has been described in 3 siblings (two males and one female). The syndrome has characteristics of the absence or hypoplasia of the tibia, pre and postaxial polydactyly of the hands and/or feet, syndactyly of the toes, shortening and bowing of other long bones, and retrocerebellar arachnoid cyst. Parental consanguinity reported in the family suggests an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
deafness, vitiligo, achalasia syndrome	Syndrome with the association of congenital deafness, short stature, vitiligo, muscle wasting, and achalasia. It has been described in a brother and his sister born to first-cousin parents. It is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
kelly kirson wyatt syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital microcephaly with a sharply sloping forehead, digital anomalies (hallux valgus, syndactyly of the toes, short fifth fingers with a single flexion crease and absence of the distal interphalangeal crease of the fourth finger) and moderate to severe intellectual deficit. Less than 10 patients have been described so far. Linkage analysis has identified a candidate region on chromosome 18 (18p11.2-q12.3). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
microcephalus, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, short stature syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of microcephaly, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, short stature and facial dysmorphism (a narrow forehead, hypertrophy and fusion of the eyebrows, micrognathia and pinnae abnormalities). It has been described in five siblings (three males and two females) born to consanguineous parents. Additional congenital anomalies present in some of the patients included cubitus valgus and genu valgum. Early tooth loss was also reported. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
passwell goodman siprkowski syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of nonbullous congenital ichthyosis, intellectual deficit, dwarfism and renal impairment. It has been described in four members of one Iranian family. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
facial dysmorphism, macrocephaly, myopia, dandy-walker malformation syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of Dandy-Walker malformation, severe intellectual deficit, macrocephaly, brachytelephalangy, facial dysmorphism and severe myopia. Three cases have been described. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
skeletal dysplasia with wormian bone, multiple fractures, dentinogenesis imperfecta syndrome (disorder)	Very rare syndrome with clinical characteristics of multiple fractures, wormian bones of the skull, dentinogenesis imperfecta and facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, periorbital fullness). Although the signs are very similar to osteogenesis imperfecta, characteristic cortical defects in the absence of osteopenia and collagen abnormalities are considered to be distinctive. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1999.
distal myopathy with posterior leg and anterior hand involvement (diagnosis)	A neuromuscular disease with characteristics of progressive symmetric muscle weakness of anterior upper and posterior lower limbs. It has been described in several members of an Australian and an Italian family. The disease usually manifests during the third decade of life with thenar muscle weakness resulting in reduced grip strength. The disease is slowly progressive and generally proceeds with calf muscle weakness appearing during the fourth decade and proximal muscles becoming perceptibly affected in the fifth decade. The disease is due to mutations on the actin-binding domain of the FLNC gene that encodes filamin C, a muscle specific filamin that is also associated with myofibrillar myopathy when mutations affect other parts of the protein. The disease mechanism seems to be linked to an increased actin-binding affinity of filamin C.
distal myopathy with early respiratory muscle involvement (diagnosis)	A mid-life onset distal myopathy with characteristics of tibialis anterior weakness and progressive respiratory muscle involvement present from the onset of the disease. It has been described in three generations of a family (11 patients). Transmission is autosomal dominant and an anticipation phenomenon is suspected. No genes have yet been identified.
ehba - extrahepatic biliary atresia	A congenital disorder characterized by blockage or absence of the extrahepatic bile ducts.
phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha related overgrowth syndrome (disorder)	A spectrum of diseases with manifestation of overgrowth that results from somatic activating mutations in the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/AKT/mTOR pathway.
congenital absence and aplasia of penis	An extremely rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the penis. It may be associated with other genitourinary abnormalities.
cranioectodermal dysplasia (disorder)	An autosomal recessive disorder associated with mutation(s) in at least one of four genes (WDR35, IFT122, WDR19, or IFT43). It is characterized by distinctive abnormalities of the face and skull, in association with developmental abnormalities of the structures derived from ectodermal tissues.
leukonychia totalis was seen	A rare nail anomaly disorder characterized by complete white discoloration of the nails. Patients typically present white, chalky nails as an isolated finding, although other cutaneous or systemic manifestations could also be present. There is evidence the disease can be caused by homozygous or heterozygous mutation in the PLCD1 gene on chromosome 3p22-p21.3.
ddh - developmental dysplasia of hip	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
encephalocele, unspecified	A congenital neural tube closure defect resulting in the protrusion of the brain through a skull opening. When the protrusion includes the meninges, the term encephalomeningocele is used.
bifid skull	A congenital neural tube closure defect resulting in the protrusion of the brain through a skull opening. When the protrusion includes the meninges, the term encephalomeningocele is used.
arthrogryposis with renal dysfunction and cholestasis syndrome	A multisystem disorder with characteristics of neurogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita, renal tubular dysfunction and neonatal cholestasis with low serum gamma-glutamyl transferase activity. The phenotype is variable, even within the same family and cases may go undiagnosed as not all the patients present with the three cardinal features. Mutations in the VPS33B gene (15q26.1) have been found in 75% of ARC families, as well as mutations in the VIPAR gene (C14ORF133), encoding a protein that complexes with VPS33B. Most patients die within the first year of life despite supportive care for metabolic acidosis and cholestasis and those surviving longer show cirrhosis and severe developmental delay.
gowers disease	Disease with characteristics of early-onset selective weakness of the great toe and ankle dorsiflexors and a very slowly progressive course. Age at onset varies from 4 to 5 years to the early twenties. Early weakness of neck flexion is present in all patients. Mild involvement of the facial musculature (particularly of the orbicularis oculi and oris muscles) is often present. Mild proximal weakness develops more than ten years after the onset of the disease. Caused by mutation of the MYH7 gene (14q11) and transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
atrioventricular septal defect, blepharophimosis, radial and anal defect syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of atrioventricular septal defects and blepharophimosis, in addition to radial (e.g. aplastic radius, shortened ulna, fifth finger clinodactyly, absent first metacarpal and thumb) and anal (e.g. imperforate or anteriorly placed anus, rectovaginal fistula) defects.
dysmorphism, cleft palate, loose skin syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of severe psychomotor delay, intellectual disability, congenital, symmetrical circumferential skin creases of arms and legs, cleft palate, and facial dysmorphism (including elongated face, high forehead, blepharophimosis, short palpebral fissures, microphthalmia, microcornea, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, microtia, posteriorly angulated ears, broad nasal bridge, microstomia and micrognathia). Additional features reported include short stature, microcephaly, hypotonia, pectus excavatum, severe scoliosis, hypoplastic scrotum and mixed hearing loss.
facial dysmorphism, cleft palate, loose skin syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of severe psychomotor delay, intellectual disability, congenital, symmetrical circumferential skin creases of arms and legs, cleft palate, and facial dysmorphism (including elongated face, high forehead, blepharophimosis, short palpebral fissures, microphthalmia, microcornea, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, microtia, posteriorly angulated ears, broad nasal bridge, microstomia and micrognathia). Additional features reported include short stature, microcephaly, hypotonia, pectus excavatum, severe scoliosis, hypoplastic scrotum and mixed hearing loss.
congenital muscular dystrophy with hyperlaxity (disorder)	A rare genetic neuromuscular disease characterized by congenital hypotonia, generalized, slowly progressive muscular weakness, and proximal joint contractures with distal joint hypermobility and hyperlaxity. Scoliosis or rigidity of the spine and delayed motor milestones are also frequently reported. Other manifestations include a long myopathic face and in rare cases, respiratory failure, mild to moderate intellectual deficiency and short stature. Ambulation may be impaired with time.
congenital myopathy with myasthenic-like onset	A rare genetic, non-dystrophic myopathy with characteristics of fatigable muscle weakness associated with congenital myopathy. Patients present with axial hypotonia, myopathic facies with fatigable ptosis, feeding difficulties, delayed gross motor development and proximal limb weakness with a RYR1-related typical pattern of muscle involvement (i.e. severe involvement of the soleus muscle and sparring of the rectus femoris, sartorius, gracilis and semitendinous muscles). Scoliosis and frequent respiratory tract infections are additional observed features.
congenital patent ductus arteriosus aneurysm	A rare congenital arterial duct anomaly with characteristics of saccular dilatation of the ductus arteriosus. It is often asymptomatic or presents shortly after birth with respiratory distress, stridor, cyanosis and/or weak cry. Complications, such as rupture, thromboembolism, infection, airway erosion and/or compression of the adjacent thoracic structures can develop. Spontaneous resolution has been reported.
connective tissue disorder due to lysyl hydroxylase-3 deficiency	A rare genetic disease caused by lack of lysyl hydroxylase-3 (LH3) activity with characteristics of multiple tissue and organ involvement, including skeletal abnormalities (club foot, progressive scoliosis, osteopenia, pathologic fractures), ocular involvement (flat retinae, myopia, cataracts) and hair, nail and skin anomalies (coarse, abnormally distributed hair, skin blistering, reduced palmar creases, hypoplastic nails). Patients also present intrauterine growth retardation, facial dysmorphism (flat facial profile, low-set ears, shallow orbits, short and upturned nose, downturned corners of mouth) and joint flexion contractures. Growth and developmental delay, bilateral sensorineural deafness, friable diaphragm and later-onset spontaneous vascular ruptures are additional reported features. The disorder is caused by mutation in the PLOD3 gene, which encodes lysyl hydroxylase-3
bone fragillity, contractures, arterial rupture, deafness syndrome	A rare genetic disease caused by lack of lysyl hydroxylase-3 (LH3) activity with characteristics of multiple tissue and organ involvement, including skeletal abnormalities (club foot, progressive scoliosis, osteopenia, pathologic fractures), ocular involvement (flat retinae, myopia, cataracts) and hair, nail and skin anomalies (coarse, abnormally distributed hair, skin blistering, reduced palmar creases, hypoplastic nails). Patients also present intrauterine growth retardation, facial dysmorphism (flat facial profile, low-set ears, shallow orbits, short and upturned nose, downturned corners of mouth) and joint flexion contractures. Growth and developmental delay, bilateral sensorineural deafness, friable diaphragm and later-onset spontaneous vascular ruptures are additional reported features. The disorder is caused by mutation in the PLOD3 gene, which encodes lysyl hydroxylase-3
fetal akinesia, cerebral and retinal hemorrhage syndrome	A rare lethal congenital myopathy syndrome characterised by decreased fetal movements and polyhydramnios in utero and the presence of akinesia, severe hypotonia with respiratory insufficiency, absent reflexes, joint contractures, skeletal abnormalities with thin ribs and bones, intracranial and retinal haemorrhages and decreased birth weight in the neonate.
autosomal recessive intellectual disability due to trappc9 (trafficking protein particle complex 9) deficiency	A rare syndromic intellectual disability with primary characteristics of moderate to severe intellectual disability, true-to-relative microcephaly and brain abnormalities including a thin corpus callosum, cerebellar hypoplasia, cerebral white matter hypoplasia and multi-focal hyperintensity of cerebral white matter on MRI. Obesity and distinctive craniofacial dysmorphism (including brachycephaly, round face, straight eyebrows, synophrys, hypertelorism, epicanthus, wide and depressed nasal bridge, protruding ears with uplifted lobe, downslanting corners of the mouth) are additional features.
intellectual disability, obesity, brain malformation, facial dysmorphism syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare syndromic intellectual disability with primary characteristics of moderate to severe intellectual disability, true-to-relative microcephaly and brain abnormalities including a thin corpus callosum, cerebellar hypoplasia, cerebral white matter hypoplasia and multi-focal hyperintensity of cerebral white matter on MRI. Obesity and distinctive craniofacial dysmorphism (including brachycephaly, round face, straight eyebrows, synophrys, hypertelorism, epicanthus, wide and depressed nasal bridge, protruding ears with uplifted lobe, downslanting corners of the mouth) are additional features.
familial progressive hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation of skin (disorder)	A rare genetic skin pigmentation anomaly disorder with characteristics of progressive, diffuse, partly blotchy, hyperpigmented lesions that are intermixed with multiple cafe au lait spots, hypopigmented maculae and lentigines and are located on the face, neck, trunk and limbs, as well as, frequently, the palms, soles and oral mucosa. Dyspigmentation pattern can range from well isolated cafe au lait/hypopigmented patches on a background of normal-appearing skin to confetti-like or mottled appearance. There is evidence this disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the KIT ligand gene (KITLG) on chromosome 12q22.
x-linked lethal multiple pterygium syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis. The disease has the typical lethal multiple pterygium syndrome presentation comprising of multiple pterygia, severe arthrogryposis, cleft palate, cystic hygromata and/or fetal hydrops, skeletal abnormalities and fetal death in the second or third trimester with an X-linked pattern of inheritance.
aortic arch anomaly, facial dysmorphism, intellectual disability syndrome (disorder)	A developmental anomaly with characteristics as birth of right-sided aortic arch, craniofacial dysmorphism (microcephaly, asymmetric, facial bones, broad forehead, borderline hypertelorism, nasal septum deviation, large nasal cavity, large, posteriorly rotated ears and microstomia with downturned corners), and intellectual disability. These features were observed in 4 members of one family, involving 2 successive generations, suggesting an autosomal dominant mode of transmission. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1968.
congenital lymphangioma of larynx	A rare benign congenital malformation of the lymphatic system with a polypoidal, variable-sized, soft tissue mass located in the larynx. Most lesions manifest by the second year of life and depending on the size, patients may present with changes in voice, dysphagia, stridor, airway obstruction and/or respiratory distress. Cystic hygroma of the neck is frequently associated.
46,xy ovotesticular disorder of sex development (disorder)	A rare genetic disorder of sex development with either the coexistence of both male and female reproductive gonads or, more frequently, the presence of one or both gonads containing a mixture of both testicular and ovarian tissue (ovotestes) in an individual with a normal male 46, XY karyotype. External genitalia are usually ambiguous, but can range from normal male to normal female and if a uterus and/or fallopian tubes are present, they are generally hypoplastic. Cryptorchidism, hypospadias, infertility and increased risk of gonadal neoplasm are frequently associated.
familial vesicoureteral reflux	A rare non-syndromic urogenital tract malformation with the familial occurrence of retrograde flow of urine from the bladder into the ureter and sometimes the kidneys. Patients may be asymptomatic or may present with recurrent, sometimes febrile, urinary tract infections that, in case of acute pyelonephritis, may lead to serious complications (renal scarring, hypertension, renal failure). Spontaneous resolution of the disorder is possible.
finnish upper limb onset distal myopathy	A rare genetic distal myopathy with characteristics of slowly progressive distal to proximal limb muscle weakness and atrophy and early involvement of thenar and hypothenar muscles. Patients present with clumsiness of the hands and stumbling in the fourth to fifth decade of life, and later develop steppage gait and contractures of the hands. Progressive fatty degeneration affects intrinsic muscles of the hands, gluteus medium and both anterior and posterior compartment muscles of the distal lower extremities, with later involvement of forearm muscles, triceps, infraspinatus and the proximal lower limb muscles. Asymmetry of muscle involvement is common.
hypotonia, speech impairment, severe cognitive delay syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic neurodegenerative disorder with characteristics of severe, persistent hypotonia (presenting at birth or in early infancy), severe global developmental delay (with poor or absent speech, difficulty or inability to roll, sit or walk), profound intellectual disability and failure to thrive. Additional manifestations include microcephaly, progressive peripheral spasticity, bilateral strabismus and nystagmus, constipation and variable dysmorphic facial features (including plagiocephaly, broad forehead, small nose, low-set ears, micrognathia and open mouth with tented upper lip).
alacrima, achalasia, and mental retardation syndrome	A rare genetic intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of delayed motor and cognitive development, absence or severe delay in speech development, intellectual disability and alacrima. Achalasia/dysphagia and mild autonomic dysfunction (anisocoria) have also been reported in some patients. The phenotype is similar to the one observed in autosomal recessive Triple A syndrome, but differs by the presence of intellectual disability in all affected individuals.
intellectual disability, brachydactyly, pierre robin syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of mild to moderate intellectual disability and psychomotor delay, Robin sequence (including severe micrognathia and soft palate cleft) and distinct dysmorphic facial features (e.g. synophrys, short palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, small, low-set and posteriorly angulated ears, bulbous nose, long/flat philtrum and bow-shaped upper lip). Skeletal anomalies such as brachydactyly, clinodactyly, small hands and feet, and oral manifestations (e.g. bifid, short tongue, oligodontia) are also associated. Additional features reported include microcephaly, capillary hemangiomas on face and scalp, ventricular septal defect, corneal clouding, nystagmus and profound sensorineural deafness.
dislocation of hip and facial dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with manifestations of bilateral congenital dislocation of the hip, characteristic facial features (flat mid-face, hypertelorism, epicanthus, puffiness around the eyes, broad nasal bridge, carp-shaped mouth), and joint hyperextensibility. Congenital heart defects, congenital dislocation of the knee, congenital inguinal hernia, and vesicoureteric reflux have also been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1995.
macrocephaly and developmental delay syndrome (disorder)	A rare intellectual disability syndrome characterised by macrocephaly, mild dysmorphic features (frontal bossing, long face, hooded eye lids with small, downslanting palpebral fissures, broad nasal bridge, and prominent chin), global neurodevelopmental delay, behavioural abnormalities (e.g. anxiety, stereotyped movements) and absence or generalised tonic-clonic seizures. Additional features reported in some patients include craniosynostosis, fifth finger clinodactyly, recurrent pneumonia, and hepatosplenomegaly. The disease is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the KPTN gene on chromosome 19q13.
kelch like family member 9 related early-onset distal myopathy (disorder)	A rare genetic distal myopathy with characteristics of slowly progressive distal limb muscle weakness and atrophy (beginning with anterior tibial muscle involvement followed by the intrinsic hand muscles) in association with reduced sensation in a stocking-glove distribution. Patients present with high stepping gait, ankle areflexia and contractures in the first to second decade of life, associated with marked ankle extensor muscle atrophy; later proximal muscle involvement is moderate and ambulation is preserved throughout the life.
larsen-like syndrome beta -1,3-glucuronyltransferase 3 type (diagnosis)	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia with characteristics of laxity, dislocations and contractures of the joints, short stature, foot deformities (e.g. clubfeet), broad tips of fingers and toes, short neck, dysmorphic facial features (hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, upturned nose with anteverted nares, high arched palate) and various cardiac malformations. Severe disease is associated with multiple fractures, osteopenia, arachnodactyly and blue sclerae. A broad spectrum of additional features, including scoliosis, radio-ulnar synostosis, mild developmental delay and various eye disorders (glaucoma, amblyopia, hyperopia, astigmatism, ptosis), are also reported.
larsen-like syndrome beta-1,3-glucuronyltransferase 3 type	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia with characteristics of laxity, dislocations and contractures of the joints, short stature, foot deformities (e.g. clubfeet), broad tips of fingers and toes, short neck, dysmorphic facial features (hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, upturned nose with anteverted nares, high arched palate) and various cardiac malformations. Severe disease is associated with multiple fractures, osteopenia, arachnodactyly and blue sclerae. A broad spectrum of additional features, including scoliosis, radio-ulnar synostosis, mild developmental delay and various eye disorders (glaucoma, amblyopia, hyperopia, astigmatism, ptosis), are also reported.
oculoauricular syndrome schorderet type	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of various ophthalmic anomalies (including congenital microphthalmia, microcornea, cataract, anterior segment dysgenesis, ocular coloboma and early onset rod-cone dystrophy) and abnormal external ears (low-set pinna with crumpled helix, narrow intertragic incisure, abnormal bridge connecting the crus of the helix and the anthelix, narrow external acoustic meatus and lobule aplasia). There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the HMX1 gene on chromosome 4p16.
oculoauricular syndrome schorderet type (disorder)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of various ophthalmic anomalies (including congenital microphthalmia, microcornea, cataract, anterior segment dysgenesis, ocular coloboma and early onset rod-cone dystrophy) and abnormal external ears (low-set pinna with crumpled helix, narrow intertragic incisure, abnormal bridge connecting the crus of the helix and the anthelix, narrow external acoustic meatus and lobule aplasia). There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the HMX1 gene on chromosome 4p16.
odonto onycho dysplasia with alopecia syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of almost total alopecia with only sparse, thin, brittle, slow-growing scalp hair, fair and sparse eyebrows and eyelashes, absent axillary and pubic hair, fragile and brittle fingernails, thick and brittle toenails (both with a subungual corneal layer), hypodontia, microdontia, widely spaced teeth with hypoplastic enamel, mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots and areolae anomalies. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
moran barroso syndrome	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (septum hypertrophy) and central nervous system abnormalities (myelomeningocele, Sylvius aqueduct stenosis, corpus callosum agenesis, vermis hypoplasia), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, bifid tongue, supernumerary teeth, macrocephaly, hypertelorism, pre- and post-axial polydactyly in hands, preaxial polydactyly in feet and club feet). Skeletal anomalies, such as short tibiae and central, Y-shaped metacarpals are also associated.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 12 (disorder)	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (septum hypertrophy) and central nervous system abnormalities (myelomeningocele, Sylvius aqueduct stenosis, corpus callosum agenesis, vermis hypoplasia), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, bifid tongue, supernumerary teeth, macrocephaly, hypertelorism, pre- and post-axial polydactyly in hands, preaxial polydactyly in feet and club feet). Skeletal anomalies, such as short tibiae and central, Y-shaped metacarpals are also associated.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 12	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (septum hypertrophy) and central nervous system abnormalities (myelomeningocele, Sylvius aqueduct stenosis, corpus callosum agenesis, vermis hypoplasia), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, bifid tongue, supernumerary teeth, macrocephaly, hypertelorism, pre- and post-axial polydactyly in hands, preaxial polydactyly in feet and club feet). Skeletal anomalies, such as short tibiae and central, Y-shaped metacarpals are also associated.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 12	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (septum hypertrophy) and central nervous system abnormalities (myelomeningocele, Sylvius aqueduct stenosis, corpus callosum agenesis, vermis hypoplasia), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, bifid tongue, supernumerary teeth, macrocephaly, hypertelorism, pre- and post-axial polydactyly in hands, preaxial polydactyly in feet and club feet). Skeletal anomalies, such as short tibiae and central, Y-shaped metacarpals are also associated.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 13	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia) and neuropsychiatric manifestations (epilepsy, depression), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (lingual hamartomas, cleft lip, and brachydactyly, clinodactyly, syndactyly of hands and feet). Leukoaraiosis on brain MRI examination is also associated.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 13	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia) and neuropsychiatric manifestations (epilepsy, depression), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (lingual hamartomas, cleft lip, and brachydactyly, clinodactyly, syndactyly of hands and feet). Leukoaraiosis on brain MRI examination is also associated.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 14	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with autosomal recessive inheritance and C2CD3 mutations. The disease has characteristics of severe microcephaly, trigonocephaly, severe intellectual disability and micropenis, in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, lingual hamartomas, cleft/lobulated tongue, cleft palate, telecanthus, up-slanting palpebral fissures, microretrognathia, postaxial polydactyly of hands and duplication of hallux). Corpus callosum agenesis and vermis hypoplasia with molar tooth sign on brain imaging are also associated.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 14	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with autosomal recessive inheritance and C2CD3 mutations. The disease has characteristics of severe microcephaly, trigonocephaly, severe intellectual disability and micropenis, in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, lingual hamartomas, cleft/lobulated tongue, cleft palate, telecanthus, up-slanting palpebral fissures, microretrognathia, postaxial polydactyly of hands and duplication of hallux). Corpus callosum agenesis and vermis hypoplasia with molar tooth sign on brain imaging are also associated.
postaxial polydactyly, anterior pituitary anomalies, facial dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with primary characteristics of congenital hypopituitarism and/or postaxial polydactyly. It can be associated with short stature, delayed bone age, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and/or midline facial defects (e.g. hypotelorism, mild midface hypoplasia, flat nasal bridge, and cleft lip and/or palate). Hypoplastic anterior pituitary and ectopic posterior pituitary lobe are frequent findings on MRI examination.
segmental outgrowth, lipomatosis, arteriovenous malformation, epidermal nevus syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic, poly malformative syndrome with characteristics of progressive, proportionate, asymmetric segmental overgrowth (with soft tissue hypertrophy and ballooning effect) that develops and progresses rapidly in early childhood, arteriovenous and lymphatic vascular malformations, lipomatosis and linear epidermal nevus (arranged in whorls along the lines of Blaschko). Clinical symptoms of Cowden syndrome, such as macrocephaly and progressive development of numerous hypertrophic hamartomatous and neoplastic lesions involving multiple organs and systems are also associated. Patients present an increased risk of developing cancer.
solamen syndrome	A rare genetic, poly malformative syndrome with characteristics of progressive, proportionate, asymmetric segmental overgrowth (with soft tissue hypertrophy and ballooning effect) that develops and progresses rapidly in early childhood, arteriovenous and lymphatic vascular malformations, lipomatosis and linear epidermal nevus (arranged in whorls along the lines of Blaschko). Clinical symptoms of Cowden syndrome, such as macrocephaly and progressive development of numerous hypertrophic hamartomatous and neoplastic lesions involving multiple organs and systems are also associated. Patients present an increased risk of developing cancer.
spina bifida and hypospadias syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with the specific association of glandular hypospadias and lumbo-sacral spina bifida. Affected individuals may or may not present additional congenital anomalies, such as hydrocephaly, microstomia, patent ductus arteriosus, cryptorchidism, intestinal malrotation, rocker-bottom feet and hypertrichosis.
sensorineural hearing loss postlingual non-syndromic genetic deafness	A rare genetically highly heterogeneous otorhinolaryngologic disease, resulting from inner and/or middle ear or hearing nerve anomalies, with typical characteristics of progressive, bilateral, moderate to profound hearing loss (mean sensorineural hearing impairment equal to 40 dB or more for 500-1,000-and 2,000-Hz frequency tones in the better ear) which occurs after the onset of speech development and is not associated with visible external ear abnormalities or any other medical problems. Language development is not initially significantly delayed.
prelingual non-syndromic genetic deafness	A rare genetically highly heterogeneous otorhinolaryngologic disease, resulting from inner and/or middle ear or hearing nerve anomalies, with typical characteristics of bilateral, severe to profound hearing loss (mean sensorineural hearing impairment of 60 dB or more for 500-1,000-, and 2,000-Hz frequency tones in the better ear) which occurs before the onset of speech development and is not associated with visible external ear abnormalities or any other medical problems. It is usually nonprogressive and impedes oral language acquisition.
woolly hair with palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome	A very rare hereditary epidermal disorder characterized by hypotrichosis/wooly scalp hair, sparse body hair, eyelashes and eyebrows, leukonychia and striate palmoplantar keratoderma (more severe on the soles than the palms), which progressively worsens with age. Pseudo ainhum of the fifth toes was also reported. Although the syndrome shares clinical similarities with both Naxos disease and Carvajal syndrome, cardiomyopathy is notably absent. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the KANK2 gene on chromosome 19p13.
familial isolated trichomegaly	A rare genetic hair anomaly with characteristics of a prolonged anagen phase of the eyelash hairs, leading to extreme eyelash growth that may result in corneal irritation. Increased growth of hair on other parts of the face (eyebrows, cheeks, forehead) and/or the body (chest, arms, legs) may be associated. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the FGF5 gene on chromosome 4q21.
cylindrical spirals myopathy (disorder)	A rare form of congenital myopathy characterized by global muscle weakness, hypotonia, myotonia and cramps in the presence of cylindrical, spiral-shaped inclusions (located in the central and/or subsarcolemmal areas of muscle fibers) in skeletal muscle biopsy. Abnormal gait, scoliosis, epileptic encephalopathy and psychomotor delay may be associated.
autosomal recessive myogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita	A rare inherited neuromuscular disease with prenatal presentation (usually in the second trimester) of reduced fetal movements and abnormal positioning. This results in joint abnormalities that may involve both lower and upper extremities and is usually symmetric. Also associated with severe hypotonia at birth, bilateral club foot, motor development delay, mild facial weakness without ophthalmoplegia, absent deep tendon reflexes, normal motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities, no cerebellar or pyramidal involvement and progressive disease course with loss of ambulation after the first decade of life.
autosomal recessive myogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (disorder)	A rare inherited neuromuscular disease with prenatal presentation (usually in the second trimester) of reduced fetal movements and abnormal positioning. This results in joint abnormalities that may involve both lower and upper extremities and is usually symmetric. Also associated with severe hypotonia at birth, bilateral club foot, motor development delay, mild facial weakness without ophthalmoplegia, absent deep tendon reflexes, normal motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities, no cerebellar or pyramidal involvement and progressive disease course with loss of ambulation after the first decade of life.
colobomatous microphthalmia, rhizomelic dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of a range of developmental eye anomalies (including anophthalmia, microphthalmia, colobomas, microcornea, corectopia, cataract) and symmetric limb rhizomelia with short stature and contractures of large joints. Intellectual disability with autistic features, macrocephaly, dysmorphic features, urogenital anomalies (hypospadia, cryptorchidism), cutaneous syndactyly and precocious puberty may also be present.
congenital muscular dystrophy type 1b (diagnosis)	A rare genetic neuromuscular disorder characterised by proximal and symmetrical muscle weakness (particularly of neck, sternomastoid, facial and diaphragm muscles), spinal rigidity, joint contractures (Achilles tendon, elbows, hands), generalised muscle hypertrophy and early respiratory failure (usually in the first decade of life). Patients typically present delayed motor milestones and grossly elevated serum creatine kinase levels, and with disease progression, forced expiratory abdominal squeeze and nocturnal hypoventilation.
congenital myopathy with internal nuclei and atypical cores	A rare genetic skeletal muscle disease with characteristics of neonatal hypotonia, distal more than proximal muscle weakness, progressive exercise intolerance with prominent myalgias, and mild-to-moderate overall motor impairment with preserved ambulation. Face, extraocular, cardiac, and respiratory muscles are unaffected. Mild cognitive impairment is also noted in most patients.
cryptorchidism, arachnodactyly, intellectual disability syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterised by psychomotor delay, severe intellectual deficit, severe muscle hypoplasia (with absence of subcutaneous fatty tissue), generalised contractures, craniofacial dysmorphic features (dolichocephaly, esotropia, ears of unequal size, high palate), chest and spinal deformities (sternum shifted to side, kyphoscoliosis), pulmonary anomalies (unilateral hypoplastic bronchial system), arachnodactyly, and genital abnormalities (cryptorchidism, hypospadias, testicular agenesis). Repeated respiratory tract infections and atelectasis are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1970.
focal epilepsy, intellectual disability, cerebro-cerebellar malformation syndrome	A rare genetic neurological disorder with early infantile-onset of seizures, borderline to moderate intellectual disability, cerebellar features including dysarthria and ataxia and cerebellar atrophy and cortical thickening observed on MRI imaging. Seizures are typically focal (with prominent eye blinking, facial and limb jerking), precipitated by fever and often commence with an oral sensory aura. When not properly controlled by anti-epileptic medication, weekly frequency and persistence into adult life is observed.
birth defect due to maternal hyperthermia	A rare maternal disease-related embryofetopathy with characteristics of variable developmental anomalies of the fetus due to teratogenic effect of elevated maternal body temperature (resulting from febrile illness or hot environment exposure). Reported developmental anomalies include neural tube defects (spina bifida, encephalocele, anencephaly), cardiac defects (transposition of great vessels), urogenital defects (hypospadias), abdominal wall defects, cleft lip/palate, eye defects (cataract, coloboma) or various minor anomalies (for example bifid uvula, preauricular pit or tag). Consensus regarding cause and effect relationship has not been reached.
symptomatic form of muscular dystrophy of duchenne and becker in female carrier (disorder)	Disease with characteristics of variable degrees of muscle weakness due to progressive skeletal myopathy sometimes associated with dilated cardiomyopathy or left ventricle dilation. Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies primarily affect males and only a small percentage of female carriers have been reported to manifest these diseases. Symptomatic female carriers usually present later in life, muscle weakness is generally mild to moderate and is usually proximal and asymmetric, some patients present with cardiac manifestations alone. Females with clinical features are usually carriers of X-chromosome rearrangements, display skewed X-inactivation or have Turner syndrome.
human immunodeficiency virus type i enhancer binding protein 2 related intellectual disability	A neurological disorder with characteristics of moderate to severe developmental delay and intellectual disability and mild dysmorphic features. Early symptoms include hypotonia, delayed development of motor skills, speech delay, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, and fingers with tapered ends. Other features include microcephaly, seizures, recurrent ear infections, strabismus, amblyopia and hyperopia. Behavioural problems such as hyperactivity, attention deficit disorder, aggression, anxiety and autism spectrum occur in some cases. Caused by mutations in the HIVEP2 gene leading to a shortage of functional HIVEP2 protein. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern however most cases of this condition result from de novo mutations in the gene.
phlebectatic osteohypoplastic angiodysplasia	A rare congenital vascular anomaly syndrome characterised by venous or on occasion arterial malformations that lead to soft tissue hypertrophy and bone hypoplasia. An affected limb is generally shortened, highly deformed, painful and oedematous with associated bone and muscle hypotrophy. Single parts or multiple small parts of limbs are typically affected but more extensive involvement including complete extremity shoulder girdle and axilla have been reported.
stratton garcia young syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, thin habitus with narrow shoulders, mesomelic shortness of the arms, craniofacial dysmorphism (for example long lower face, maxillary hypoplasia, beak nose, short columella, prognathia, high arched palate, obtuse mandibular angle), brachydactyly (mostly involving middle phalanges) and cardiovascular anomalies (such as aortic root dilatation, mitral valve prolapse).
brachydactyly, mesomelia, intellectual disability, heart defect syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, thin habitus with narrow shoulders, mesomelic shortness of the arms, craniofacial dysmorphism (for example long lower face, maxillary hypoplasia, beak nose, short columella, prognathia, high arched palate, obtuse mandibular angle), brachydactyly (mostly involving middle phalanges) and cardiovascular anomalies (such as aortic root dilatation, mitral valve prolapse).
congenital anomaly of circulatory system aortic arch neuhauser anomaly	A rare cardiovascular morphological anomaly due to maldevelopment of embryonal aorta resulting in right aortic arch and left ligamentum arteriosum characterised by tracheooesophageal compression symptoms (stridor, dyspnoea, dysphagia, apnoeic episodes, recurrent respiratory infections).
trichodysplasia xeroderma syndrome	An extremely rare syndromic hair shaft anomaly with characteristics of sparse, coarse, brittle, excessively dry and slow-growing scalp hair, sparse axillary and pubic hair, sparse or absent eyelashes and eyebrows and dry skin. Hair shaft analysis shows pili torti, longitudinal splitting, grooves, peeling and scaling. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, short limb, abnormal calcification syndrome	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia disorder with characteristics of disproportionate short stature with shortening of upper and lower limbs, short and broad fingers with short hands, narrowed chest with rib abnormalities and pectus excavatum, abnormal chondral calcifications (including larynx, trachea and costal cartilages) and facial dysmorphism (frontal bossing, hypertelorism, prominent eyes, short flat nose, wide nostrils, high-arched palate, long philtrum). Platyspondyly (especially of cervical spine) and abnormal epiphyses and metaphyses are observed on radiography. Atlantoaxial instability causing spinal compression and recurrent respiratory disease are potential complications that may be lethal.
epiphyseal dysplasia, hearing loss, dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	A rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, short stature, sensorineural hearing impairment, facial dysmorphism (including epicanthus, broad, depressed nasal bridge, broad, fleshy nasal tip, mildly anteverted nares, deep nasolabial folds, broad mouth with thin upper lip) and skeletal anomalies (including abnormally placed thumbs, brachydactyly, scoliosis, dysplastic carpal bones). Severe behavior disturbances (aggression, hyperactivity), as well as hypopigmented skin lesions and hypoplastic digital patterns are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
finucane kurtz scott syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, short stature, sensorineural hearing impairment, facial dysmorphism (including epicanthus, broad, depressed nasal bridge, broad, fleshy nasal tip, mildly anteverted nares, deep nasolabial folds, broad mouth with thin upper lip) and skeletal anomalies (including abnormally placed thumbs, brachydactyly, scoliosis, dysplastic carpal bones). Severe behavior disturbances (aggression, hyperactivity), as well as hypopigmented skin lesions and hypoplastic digital patterns are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
diencephalic mesencephalic junction dysplasia	A rare genetic non-syndromic cerebral malformation with characteristics of severe intellectual disability, progressive postnatal microcephaly, axial hypotonia, spastic quadriparesis, seizures and facial dysmorphism (bushy eyebrows, hairy forehead, broad nasal root, long flat philtrum, V-shaped upper lip). Additionally, talipes equinovarus, non-obstructive cardiomyopathy, persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous, obstructive hydrocephalus and autistic features may also be associated. On brain magnetic resonance imaging, the 'butterfly sign' is characteristically observed and cortical calcifications, agenesis of the corpus callosum, ventriculomegaly, brainstem dysplasia and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia have also been described.
hypomyelination neuropathy arthrogryposis syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic limb malformation syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital distal joint contractures (including talipes equinovarus and both proximal and distal interphalangeal joint contractures of the hands) and very severe motor paralysis at birth (such as lack of swallowing, autonomous respiratory function and deep tendon reflexes), leading to death within first 3 months of life. Fetal hypo or akinesia, late-onset polyhydramnios and dramatically reduced, or absent, motor nerve conduction velocities are frequently associated. Nerve ultrastructural morphology shows severe abnormalities of the nodes of Ranvier and myelinated axons.
dental crossbite anterior destruction of oral mucosa	A single anterior tooth pair is in crossbite and is also impinging on the soft tissue, resulting in destruction of the oral mucosa adjacent to one or both teeth involved.
primary tethered cord syndrome	A genetic non-syndromic congenital malformation of the neurenteric canal, spinal cord and column characterized by progressive neurologic deterioration (pain, sensorimotor deficits, abnormal gait, decreased tone or abnormal reflexes), musculoskeletal changes (foot deformities and asymmetry, muscle atrophy, limb weakness and numbness, gait disturbances, scoliosis) and/or genitourinary manifestations (bladder and bowel dysfunction). Midline cutaneous stigmata in the lumbosacral region, such as turfs of hair, skin appendages, dimples, subcutaneous lipomas, skin discoloration or hemangiomas, are frequently associated.
primary tethered cord syndrome (disorder)	A genetic non-syndromic congenital malformation of the neurenteric canal, spinal cord and column characterized by progressive neurologic deterioration (pain, sensorimotor deficits, abnormal gait, decreased tone or abnormal reflexes), musculoskeletal changes (foot deformities and asymmetry, muscle atrophy, limb weakness and numbness, gait disturbances, scoliosis) and/or genitourinary manifestations (bladder and bowel dysfunction). Midline cutaneous stigmata in the lumbosacral region, such as turfs of hair, skin appendages, dimples, subcutaneous lipomas, skin discoloration or hemangiomas, are frequently associated.
autosomal recessive leukoencephalopathy, ischemic stroke, retinitis pigmentosa syndrome	A rare neurologic disease characterized by global developmental delay, intellectual disability, multiple ischemic lesions on brain MRI, behavioral abnormalities, dystonia, choreic movements and pyramidal syndrome, facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, arched palate, macroglossia), retinitis pigmentosa, scoliosis, seizures.
holmes-gang syndrome	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X que pertenece al grupo de afecciones que presentan la asociación de déficit intelectual con facies hipotónica. Se desconoce la prevalencia pero el síndrome se describió por primera vez en 1988 en tres varones (un niño de 3 años y sus dos tíos maternos) de una familia en la cual otros dos varones habían muerto en la lactancia/infancia. Todos los varones afectados tenían una facies característica (estrechez bitemporal, fisuras palpebrales almendradas, puente nasal deprimido, fosas nasales en anteversión, labio superior corto y con forma de V invertida y macrostomía). Los pacientes sobrevivientes también tenían déficit intelectual severo, baja estatura, obesidad leve, hipogonadismo y un recuento total de surcos digitales disminuido. El síndrome se produce por mutaciones sin sentido en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3). La herencia es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
holmes gang syndrome (disorder)	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X que pertenece al grupo de afecciones que presentan la asociación de déficit intelectual con facies hipotónica. Se desconoce la prevalencia pero el síndrome se describió por primera vez en 1988 en tres varones (un niño de 3 años y sus dos tíos maternos) de una familia en la cual otros dos varones habían muerto en la lactancia/infancia. Todos los varones afectados tenían una facies característica (estrechez bitemporal, fisuras palpebrales almendradas, puente nasal deprimido, fosas nasales en anteversión, labio superior corto y con forma de V invertida y macrostomía). Los pacientes sobrevivientes también tenían déficit intelectual severo, baja estatura, obesidad leve, hipogonadismo y un recuento total de surcos digitales disminuido. El síndrome se produce por mutaciones sin sentido en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3). La herencia es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
multiple abnormalities	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
congenital anomaly nos/multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
anomaly congenital multiple (nos)	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
arachnodactyly	An abnormal bone development that is characterized by extra long and slender hands and fingers, such that the clenched thumb extends beyond the ulnar side of the hand. Arachnodactyly can include feet and toes. Arachnodactyly has been associated with several gene mutations and syndromes.
arthrogryposis (disorder)	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
brachydactyly was noted	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
twisted hair	Pili (from Latin pilus, hair) torti (from Latin tortus, twisted) refers to short and brittle hairs that appear flattened and twisted when viewed through a microscope. [HPO:probinson]
jeune thoracic dystrophy	A rare autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by a narrow thorax, micromelia, and respiratory disturbances which may lead to asphyxiation. It may be associated with bilateral microcystic renal disease which may lead to renal failure.
acrocephalopolysyndactyly type iv (disorder)	An extremely rare chondrodysplastic malformation syndrome with the combination of arachnodactyly, becoming evident at around the age of 10, camptodactyly and scoliosis. A mild facial dysmorphism including a broad nose and flaring nostrils and a mild intellectual disability were also noted. The syndrome has been described once in 3 siblings and is suspected to follow autosomal recessive transmission. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1972.
rcdp - rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata	An autosomal recessive form of CHONDRODYSPLASIA PUNCTATA characterized by defective plasmalogen biosynthesis and impaired peroxisomes. Patients have shortened proximal limbs and severely disturbed endochondral bone formation. The metabolic defects associated with the impaired peroxisomes are present only in the rhizomelic form of chondrodysplasia punctata. (From Scriver et al, Metabolic Basis of Inherited Disease, 6th ed, p1497)
cornea plana	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
mgc1	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
reduced perineum	Shortened distance between anus and genital tubercle. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
streblodactyly	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
brachycephaly, deafness, cataract, microstomia, and mental retardation	Syndrome with characteristics of psychomotor delay, brachycephaly with flat face, small nose, microstomia, cleft palate, cataract, hearing loss, hypoplastic scrotum and digital anomalies. Less than 10 patients have been described in the literature so far. Although the majority of reported cases were sporadic, the syndrome has been reported in one pair of siblings (a brother and sister) with an apparently autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.
mental retardation, aphasia, shuffling gait, and adducted thumbs	A mild to severe congenital X-linked developmental disorder with hydrocephalus of varying degrees of severity, intellectual deficit, spasticity of the legs, and adducted thumbs. Primarily affects males. Affected males have varying degrees of hydrocephalus ranging from subclinical to severe. Intellectual deficit ranges from mild to severe. Adducted thumbs are a characteristic feature of the syndrome, present in about 50% of cases. Caused by mutations in the L1CAM gene (Xq28) encoding the L1 cell adhesion molecule that is expressed mainly in the developing nervous system. Inherited in an X-linked manner.
congenital short costocoracoid ligament (disorder)	A rare anomaly with characteristics of fixation of the scapula to the first rib, resulting in a cosmetic deformity with rounding of the shoulders and loss of the anterior clavicular contour. It has been described only once in several members of a single family from Canada. The abnormality resulted in a strong pectoral girdle with lack of mobility. Movements requiring rotation or retraction of the scapula were limited, but this does not normally interfere with daily activities.
daish hardman lamont syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in two sisters and with the presence of hydrocephalus (onset in infancy), tall stature, joint laxity, and thoracolumbar kyphosis. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1989.
cardioskeletal syndrome kuwaiti type	Heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia (including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs). It has been described only once in the literature, in two male siblings from Kuwaiti first cousins. The clinical and radiological features of these patients were reported as a distinct cardio-skeletal syndrome.
gcs1	A rare syndrome consisting of growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, camptodactyly and skeletal anomalies. To date only eight cases have been reported in the literature. Dysmorphic features include flat face, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, small downturned mouth, small ears with attached lobule and abnormal dental eruption and occlusion. Some patients had psychomotor development delayed. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
acrofacial dysostosis rodriguez type	A multiple malformation syndrome in which mandibulofacial dysostosis and severe limb reduction defects are associated with complex malformations of different organs and systems especially the central nervous system, urogenital tract, heart, and lungs. The mandibulofacial defect causes death by respiratory distress. Limb reduction is severe and includes shoulder and pelvis hypoplasia, phocomelia with humerus hypoplasia, absent radius and ulna, complete absence of long bones of the legs, and various hand anomalies, predominantly preaxial reduction. These infants also show facial dysmorphism and ear anomalies. The condition is a rare with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. The prognosis is poor and this condition leads to death in utero or shortly after birth.
acrorenal-uterine-mandibular syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of limb deficiencies and renal anomalies that include split hand-split foot malformation, renal agenesis, polycystic kidneys, uterine anomalies and severe mandibular hypoplasia.
camptobrachydactyly	An extremely rare brachydactyly syndrome with characteristics of short broad hands and feet with brachydactyly associated with congenital flexion contractures of the proximal and/or distal interphalangeal joints of the fingers, as well as syndactyly of feet. Polydactyly, septate vagina and urinary incontinence were also occasionally reported. Camptobrachydactyly has been described in 18 members of 1 family, suggesting an autosomal dominant inheritance. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1972.
limb mammary syndrome (disorder)	A rare type of ectodermal dysplasia. Less than 50 cases have been described in the literature so far. Clinically, the syndrome has characteristics of severe hand and/or foot anomalies, and hypoplasia/aplasia of the mammary gland and nipple. Clinical expression is extremely variable. Individuals with mild LMS have isolated athelia. All three major categories of limb defects (i.e., deficiencies, duplications and fusion/separation defects), as well as several combinations of these anomalies, were observed. Variation in the severity of the limb defects may be observed, not only between individuals but also between the left and right hand/foot of one individual. Skin and hair are spared. An autosomal dominant disease caused by loss-of-function mutations in exon 13 and 14 of the TP63 gene found on the subtelomeric region of chromosome 3 (3q27).
radio-renal syndrome (disorder)	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of variable upper limb reduction defects and renal anomalies. Patients typically present absence/hypoplasia of digits, radii and/or ulnae, short stature and mild external ear malformation, as well as kidney agenesis or ectopia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1983.
x-linked intellectual disability with plagiocephaly syndrome (diagnosis)	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, brachycephaly, plagiocephaly, prominent forehead and coarse facial features. It has been described in two males from one family. Two females belonging to the same family displayed moderate intellectual deficit but no craniofacial dysmorphism.
intellectual disability with cataract and kyphosis syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, kyphosis with onset in childhood and cataract with onset in late adolescence. The syndrome has been described in three siblings. The two brothers also presented with iris coloboma. Other clinical findings include contractures of large joints, bulbous nose with broad nasal bridge, and thick lips. The disease is linked to the pericentromeric region of chromosome 4. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
camptodactyly taurinuria syndrome (disorder)	A congenital malformation syndrome with the association of a permanent camptodactyly of the fingers and the over excretion of taurine in the urine. Camptodactyly mainly affects the little finger, although any finger may be involved. The disease has been described in 17 affected patients from 4 unrelated families. An autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1966.
torticollis, keloids, cryptorchidism, renal dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare developmental defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome with congenital muscular torticollis associated with skin anomalies (such as multiple keloids, pigmented nevi, epithelioma), urogenital malformations (including cryptorchidism and hypospadias) and renal dysplasia (for example chronic pyelonephritis, renal atrophy). Additional reported features include varicose veins, intellectual disability and musculoskeletal anomalies.
spondylometaphyseal dysplasia, bowed forearms, facial dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia disorder with characteristics of short stature, hyperlordosis, protuberant abdomen, mild bilateral genu varum, bowed and shortened forearms with limited elbow extension and discrete facial dysmorphism (prominent forehead, hypertelorism, flat nasal bridge). Radiographically moderate platyspondyly, including posterior wedging with anterior bullet-shaped vertebral bodies, with minimal metaphyseal abnormalities are observed.
radial deficiency, tibial hypoplasia syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic dysostosis syndrome with combined reduction defects of upper and lower limbs and characteristics of bilateral radial aplasia, absent thumbs and bilateral tibial hypo/aplasia. Additional bone anomalies (including partial toe hypo/aplasia, short fibula and clubhand) may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1996.
congenital short bowel syndrome	A rare intestinal disorder of neonates of unknown aetiology. Patients are born with a short small bowel (less than 75 cm in length) that compromises proper intestinal absorption and leads chronic diarrhoea, vomiting and failure to thrive.
congenital disease, nos	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
deformity (finding)	An anatomic abnormality that is either present at birth or appears later in life.
choanal; fusion	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
atresia choanal	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
atresia of posterior naris	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
choanal atresia, unspecified	A congenital abnormality that is characterized by a blocked CHOANAE, the opening between the nose and the NASOPHARYNX. Blockage can be unilateral or bilateral; bony or membranous.
clubfoot nos	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
talipes; equinovarus	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
talipes equinovarus (disorder)	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
talipes equinovarus, congenital	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital foot malformation	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
foot deformities, congenital	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
congenital foot deformities	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
funnel chests	A developmental anomaly in which the lower sternum is posteriorly dislocated and concavely deformed, resulting in a funnel-shaped thorax.
feet talipes valgus	Outward turning of the heel, resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
chicken breast	A developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal anterior protrusion of the STERNUM and adjacent COSTAL CARTILAGE.
congenital vertical talus	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
rocker-bottom foot	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
clavicle, pseudarthrosis of, congenital	The two portions of the clavicle (corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle) are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum, and a synovial membrane develops, resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically. Congenital pseudarthrosis of the clavicle generally presents as a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22295044]
[x]congenital deformity of hip, unspecified	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
congenital deformity of hip joint (disorder)	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
pes equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
calcaneovarus, talipes	A congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed, inverted, and adducted foot, i.e., a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus. [HPO:probinson]
bipartite kneecap	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
deformity; nose, congenital	An abnormality of the nose. [HPO:probinson]
lop ear	Anterior and inferior folding of the upper portion of the ear that obliterates triangular fossa and scapha. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
mgcn	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
hypoplastic clavicle	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
single nostril	The presence of only a single nostril. [PMID:19152422]
amniotic band	Annular constrictions around the digits, limbs, or trunk, occurring congenitally (sometimes causing intrauterine autoamputation) and also associated with a wide variety of disorders. Constrictive amniotic bands are the result of primary amniotic rupture, which can lead to entanglement of fetal tissue (especially limbs) in fibrous amniotic strands. [HPO:probinson]
third crus	The presence of a supernumerary, i.e. third, crus of the helix in the helix, arising at or above the normal bifurcation of the antihelix. [HPO:sdoelken]
vulcan ear	The presence of a supernumerary, i.e. third, crus of the helix in the helix, arising at or above the normal bifurcation of the antihelix. [HPO:sdoelken]
choanal atresia with radial ray hypoplasia (disorder)	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of radial ray hypoplasia, choanal atresia and convergent strabismus. It has been reported in a father and his two daughters. The radial ray involvement varies from absent radius, first metacarpal and thumb to hypoplastic thumb or triphalangeal thumb. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
proboscis lateralis (disorder)	A rare congenital facial abnormality with manifestation of failed development of the external nose on one side that is replaced by a tubular structure composed of skin and soft tissue usually attached at the inner canthus of the eye. The disorder is therefore often associated with maldevelopment of the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses of the affected side. Also associated with other craniofacial abnormalities such as orbital anomalies and cleft lip/palate.
displacement, congenital hip	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
congenital hip dysplasia	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
dysplasias, congenital hip	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
hamartoma (morphologic abnormality)	A focal malformation resembling a neoplasm, composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues that normally occur in the affected area.
odontogenic cyst	Cysts found in the jaws and arising from epithelium involved in tooth formation. They include follicular cysts (e.g., primordial cyst, dentigerous cyst, multilocular cyst), lateral periodontal cysts, and radicular cysts. They may become keratinized (odontogenic keratocysts). Follicular cysts may give rise to ameloblastomas and, in rare cases, undergo malignant transformation.
malrotation of gut	A congenital abnormality in which the intestine is abnormally rotated (twisted). It may result in intestinal obstruction.
hypoplasia	Incomplete or arrested development of an organ or a part
asymmetric limb hypertrophy	A condition in which one side of the body or a part of one side is larger than the other. Children with hemihypertrophy have an increased risk of developing certain types of cancer, including Wilms tumor (a childhood kidney cancer) and liver cancer.
sialo-odontogenic cyst	A developmental odontogenic cyst with epithelial features that simulate salivary gland or glandular differentiation. (WHO 2017)
orthokeratinized odontogenic cyst	An odontogenic cyst that is entirely or predominantly lined by orthokeratinized stratified squamous epithelium. (WHO 2017)
ovotestis (diagnosis)	A gonad that contains both ovarian follicles and testicular tubular elements. [HPO:probinson]
acrocephalosyndactylies, type i	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
amelia, nos	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
aplasia of iris	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
irideraemia	A congenital abnormality in which there is only a rudimentary iris. This is due to the failure of the optic cup to grow. Aniridia also occurs in a hereditary form, usually autosomal dominant.
congenital anophthalmos	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
anus imperforate	A congenital abnormality characterized by the persistence of the anal membrane, resulting in a thin membrane covering the normal ANAL CANAL. Imperforation is not always complete and is treated by surgery in infancy. This defect is often associated with NEURAL TUBE DEFECTS; MENTAL RETARDATION; and DOWN SYNDROME.
fingers spider	An abnormal bone development that is characterized by extra long and slender hands and fingers, such that the clenched thumb extends beyond the ulnar side of the hand. Arachnodactyly can include feet and toes. Arachnodactyly has been associated with several gene mutations and syndromes.
arnold chiari malformations	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
congenitas, arthrogryposis multiplex (amc)	Persistent flexure or contracture of a joint.
atresia of bile ducts	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
impervious; bile duct	Progressive destruction or the absence of all or part of the extrahepatic BILE DUCTS, resulting in the complete obstruction of BILE flow. Usually, biliary atresia is found in infants and accounts for one third of the neonatal cholestatic JAUNDICE.
bs - bloom syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by telangiectatic ERYTHEMA of the face, photosensitivity, DWARFISM and other abnormalities, and a predisposition toward developing cancer. The Bloom syndrome gene (BLM) encodes a RecQ-like DNA helicase.
bone dysplasia	Diseases resulting in abnormal GROWTH or abnormal MORPHOGENESIS of BONES.
bone dis developmental	Diseases resulting in abnormal GROWTH or abnormal MORPHOGENESIS of BONES.
bronchial cyst	A usually spherical cyst, arising as an embryonic out-pouching of the foregut or trachea. It is generally found in the mediastinum or lung and is usually asymptomatic unless it becomes infected.
sequestration of lung	A developmental anomaly in which a mass of nonfunctioning lung tissue lacks normal connection with the tracheobroncheal tree and receives an anomalous blood supply originating from the descending thoracic or abdominal aorta. The mass may be extralobar, i.e., completely separated from normally connected lung, or intralobar, i.e., partly surrounded by normal lung.
choledochal cyst (diagnosis)	A congenital anatomic malformation of a bile duct, including cystic dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or the large intrahepatic bile duct. Classification is based on the site and type of dilatation. Type I is most common.
chondrodystrophies	morbid condition characterized by abnormal development of cartilage.
ciliary motility disorder	Conditions caused by abnormal CILIA movement in the body, usually causing KARTAGENER SYNDROME, chronic respiratory disorders, chronic SINUSITIS, and chronic OTITIS. Abnormal ciliary beating is likely due to defects in any of the 200 plus ciliary proteins, such as missing motor enzyme DYNEIN arms.
cleidocranial dysplasias	Autosomal dominant syndrome in which there is delayed closing of the CRANIAL FONTANELLES; complete or partial absence of the collarbones (CLAVICLES); wide PUBIC SYMPHYSIS; short middle phalanges of the fifth fingers; and dental and vertebral anomalies.
clubfoot; deformity	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
congenital talipes equinovarus (diagnosis)	A deformed foot in which the foot is plantarflexed, inverted, and adducted.
mulvihill smith syndrome	A syndrome characterized by multiple system abnormalities including DWARFISM; PHOTOSENSITIVITY DISORDERS; PREMATURE AGING; and HEARING LOSS. It is caused by mutations of a number of autosomal recessive genes encoding proteins that involve transcriptional-coupled DNA REPAIR processes. Cockayne syndrome is classified by the severity and age of onset. Type I (classical; CSA) is early childhood onset in the second year of life; type II (congenital; CSB) is early onset at birth with severe symptoms; type III (xeroderma pigmentosum; XP) is late childhood onset with mild symptoms.
lung; artery, congenital abnormal	An abnormality of the pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson]
cerebral meningocele (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the cranium.
congenital spinal meningocele	A congenital abnormality in which the meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column.
craniofacial dysarthroses	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
criss-cross hearts	A developmental malformation of the heart characterized by a twisted but not defective atrioventicular connection. The abnormal rotation of the ventricular mass around its long axis results in the crossing of the inflow streams of the two ventricles. Other features include hypoplasia of the TRICUSPID VALVE and RIGHT VENTRICLE.
testicle undescended	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
undescended testicle, unspecified	A developmental defect in which a TESTIS or both TESTES failed to descend from high in the ABDOMEN to the bottom of the SCROTUM. Testicular descent is essential to normal SPERMATOGENESIS which requires temperature lower than the BODY TEMPERATURE. Cryptorchidism can be subclassified by the location of the maldescended testis.
lung malformation cystic adenomatoid congen	An abnormality in lung development that is characterized by a multicystic mass resulting from an adenomatous overgrowth of the terminal BRONCHIOLES with a consequent reduction of PULMONARY ALVEOLI. This anomaly is classified into three types by the cyst size.
dandy walker malformation	A congenital abnormality of the central nervous system marked by failure of the midline structures of the cerebellum to develop, dilation of the fourth ventricle, and upward displacement of the transverse sinuses, tentorium, and torcula. Clinical features include occipital bossing, progressive head enlargement, bulging of anterior fontanelle, papilledema, ataxia, gait disturbances, nystagmus, and intellectual compromise. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, pp294-5)
dentin; dysplasia	An apparently hereditary disorder of dentin formation, marked by a normal appearance of coronal dentin associated with pulpal obliteration, faulty root formation, and a tendency for peripheral lesions without obvious cause. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
diastasis of the teeth	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
interdental space increased	An abnormal opening or fissure between two adjacent teeth.
split spinal cord	A rare congenital abnormality in which the spinal cord is split in half by fibrous or bony tissue. It may present as an isolated phenomenon or in association with spina bifida.
syndrome di george	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
22q- syndrome	congenital syndrome with the absence of the thymus and parathyroids causing impairment of cellular immunity; immunoglobulin levels are normal.
double-outlet right ventricle	Incomplete transposition of the great vessels in which both the AORTA and the PULMONARY ARTERY arise from the RIGHT VENTRICLE. The only outlet of the LEFT VENTRICLE is a large ventricular septal defect (VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS or VSD). The various subtypes are classified by the location of the septal defect, such as subaortic, subpulmonary, or noncommitted.
muscular dystrophy, duchenne	An X-linked recessive muscle disease caused by an inability to synthesize DYSTROPHIN, which is involved with maintaining the integrity of the sarcolemma. Muscle fibers undergo a process that features degeneration and regeneration. Clinical manifestations include proximal weakness in the first few years of life, pseudohypertrophy, cardiomyopathy (see MYOCARDIAL DISEASES), and an increased incidence of impaired mentation. Becker muscular dystrophy is a closely related condition featuring a later onset of disease (usually adolescence) and a slowly progressive course. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1415)
congenital ectodermal defect (disorder)	A group of hereditary disorders involving tissues and structures derived from the embryonic ectoderm. They are characterized by the presence of abnormalities at birth and involvement of both the epidermis and skin appendages. They are generally nonprogressive and diffuse. Various forms exist, including anhidrotic and hidrotic dysplasias, FOCAL DERMAL HYPOPLASIA, and aplasia cutis congenita.
ectopic cordis (diagnosis)	A rare developmental defect in which the heart is abnormally located partially or totally outside the THORAX. It is the result of defective fusion of the anterior chest wall. Depending on the location of the heart, ectopia cordis can be thoracic, thoracoabdominal, abdominal, and cervical.
ectromelia infect	A viral infection of mice, causing edema and necrosis followed by limb loss.
bifid craniums	Brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull. The majority of congenital encephaloceles occur in the occipital or frontal regions. Clinical features include a protuberant mass that may be pulsatile. The quantity and location of protruding neural tissue determines the type and degree of neurologic deficit. Visual defects, psychomotor developmental delay, and persistent motor deficits frequently occur.
cephalocele	Brain tissue herniation through a congenital or acquired defect in the skull. The majority of congenital encephaloceles occur in the occipital or frontal regions. Clinical features include a protuberant mass that may be pulsatile. The quantity and location of protruding neural tissue determines the type and degree of neurologic deficit. Visual defects, psychomotor developmental delay, and persistent motor deficits frequently occur.
occipital encephalocele	A type of encephalocele (that is, a a protrusion of part of the cranial contents including brain tissue through a congenital opening in the cranium, typically covered with skin or mucous membrane) in the occipital region of the skull. Occipital encephalocele presents as a midline swelling over the occipital bone. It is usually covered with normal full-thickness scalp. [DDD:awilkie, HPO:probinson]
enceph occipital	A type of encephalocele (that is, a a protrusion of part of the cranial contents including brain tissue through a congenital opening in the cranium, typically covered with skin or mucous membrane) in the occipital region of the skull. Occipital encephalocele presents as a midline swelling over the occipital bone. It is usually covered with normal full-thickness scalp. [DDD:awilkie, HPO:probinson]
disease, lutz-lewandowsky	An autosomal recessive trait with impaired cell-mediated immunity. About 15 human papillomaviruses are implicated in associated infection, four of which lead to skin neoplasms. The disease begins in childhood with red papules and later spreads over the body as gray or yellow scales.
epispadias (disorder)	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is above its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the top or the side of the PENIS, but the urethra can also be open the entire length of the penis. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is often between the CLITORIS and the labia, or in the ABDOMEN.
epispadia	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is above its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the top or the side of the PENIS, but the urethra can also be open the entire length of the penis. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is often between the CLITORIS and the labia, or in the ABDOMEN.
congenital esophageal atresia	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
imperforate oesophagus	Congenital abnormality characterized by the lack of full development of the ESOPHAGUS that commonly occurs with TRACHEOESOPHAGEAL FISTULA. Symptoms include excessive SALIVATION; GAGGING; CYANOSIS; and DYSPNEA.
oesophageal diverticulum	Saccular protrusion beyond the wall of the ESOPHAGUS.
eye abnorm	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the eye; may also be hereditary.
alcohol; syndrome, fetal (dysmorphic)	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
congenital anomaly of foot (disorder) [ambiguous]	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the foot occurring at or before birth.
fragile x syndrome (disorder)	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
gilbert syndrome	A benign familial disorder, transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. It is characterized by low-grade chronic hyperbilirubinemia with considerable daily fluctuations of the bilirubin level.
i glycogen storage disease	An autosomal recessive disease in which gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase is absent, resulting in hypoglycemia due to lack of glucose production. Accumulation of glycogen in liver and kidney leads to organomegaly, particularly massive hepatomegaly. Increased concentrations of lactic acid and hyperlipidemia appear in the plasma. Clinical gout often appears in early childhood.
liver phosphorylase deficiency	A hepatic GLYCOGEN STORAGE DISEASE in which there is an apparent deficiency of hepatic phosphorylase (GLYCOGEN PHOSPHORYLASE, LIVER FORM) activity.
dysgenesis, gonadal	A number of syndromes with defective gonadal developments such as streak GONADS and dysgenetic testes or ovaries. The spectrum of gonadal and sexual abnormalities is reflected in their varied sex chromosome (SEX CHROMOSOMES) constitution as shown by the karyotypes of 45,X monosomy (TURNER SYNDROME); 46,XX (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46XX); 46,XY (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46,XY); and sex chromosome MOSAICISM; (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, MIXED). Their phenotypes range from female, through ambiguous, to male. This concept includes gonadal agenesis.
syndrome, hallermann's	An oculomandibulofacial syndrome principally characterized by dyscephaly (usually brachycephaly), parrot nose, mandibular hypoplasia, proportionate nanism, hypotrichosis, bilateral congenital cataracts, and microphthalmia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
deformity; hand, congenital	Alterations or deviations from normal shape or size which result in a disfigurement of the hand occurring at or before birth.
septal defect nos	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
interauricular septal defect (disorder)	Developmental abnormalities in any portion of the ATRIAL SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communications between the two upper chambers of the heart. Classification of atrial septal defects is based on location of the communication and types of incomplete fusion of atrial septa with the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS in the fetal heart. They include ostium primum, ostium secundum, sinus venosus, and coronary sinus defects.
ventricular septal abnormality (disorder)	Developmental abnormalities in any portion of the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communications between the two lower chambers of the heart. Classification of ventricular septal defects is based on location of the communication, such as perimembranous, inlet, outlet (infundibular), central muscular, marginal muscular, or apical muscular defect.
hemimelias	A congenital malformation characterized by the partial or total absence of the distal half of a limb.
hippel lindau disease	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
pelvirectal achalasia	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
congenital aganglionic megacolon	Congenital MEGACOLON resulting from the absence of ganglion cells (aganglionosis) in a distal segment of the LARGE INTESTINE. The aganglionic segment is permanently contracted thus causing dilatation proximal to it. In most cases, the aganglionic segment is within the RECTUM and SIGMOID COLON.
congenital hydrocephalus, unspecified	Hydrocephalus that is present at birth.
spinz-nelson syndrome	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
sprinz nelson syndrome	A benign, autosomally recessive inherited hyperbilirubinemia characterized by the presence of a dark pigment in the centrilobular region of the liver cells. There is a functional defect in biliary excretion of bilirubin, cholephilic dyes, and porphyrins. Affected persons may be asymptomatic or have vague constitutional or gastrointestinal symptoms. The liver may be slightly enlarged, and oral and intravenous cholangiography fails to visualize the biliary tract.
keratoderma, palmoplantar, diffuse	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a widely distributed, well-demarcated hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. There is more than one genotypically distinct form, each of which is clinically similar but histologically distinguishable. Diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma is distinct from palmoplantar keratoderma (KERATODERMA, PALMOPLANTAR), as the former exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance and hyperhidrosis is frequently present.
psorospermosis follicularis vegetans	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
sponge kidney	En icke ärftlig njursjukdom som kännetecknas av en onormal vidgning av samlingsrören i njurmärgen och njurpapillerna. Samlingsrören innehåller cystor eller utbuktningar fyllda med en geléartad substans eller små njurstenar, vilket kan leda till infektioner eller obstruktion. Svampnjure måste särskiljas från medfödd eller ärftlig polycystnjure.
congenital dystrophia brevicollis (disorder)	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
feil klippel syndrome	A syndrome characterised by a low hairline and a shortened neck resulting from a reduced number of vertebrae or the fusion of multiple hemivertebrae into one osseous mass.
syndrome, ktw	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
klippel trenaunay syndrome	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
angio osteohypertrophy syndrome	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome with exostosis	Autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cone-shaped epiphyses in the hands and multiple cartilaginous exostoses. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY and abnormalities of chromosome 8 are often present. The exostoses in this syndrome appear identical to those of hereditary multiple exostoses (EXOSTOSES, HEREDITARY MULTIPLE).
biedl laurence moon syndrome	En autosomalt recessiv sjukdom som kännetecknas av hypogonadism, nedbrytning av ryggmärg och lillhjärna, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, retinitis pigmentosa och fetma. Syndromet kallades Laurence-Moon-Biedls syndrom tills Bardet-Biedls syndrom erkändes som ett självständigt sjukdomstillstånd.
lymphangiectasis, nos	A transient dilatation of the lymphatic vessels.
lymphangioma of unspecified site (disorder)	A benign tumor resulting from a congenital malformation of the lymphatic system. Lymphangioendothelioma is a type of lymphangioma in which endothelial cells are the dominant component.
short rib-polydactyly syndrome, type ii	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
majewski syndrome	A group of rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorders characterized by a constricted thoracic cage, short ribs, and a 'trident' appearance of the acetabular roof. Polydactyly may or may not be present. Other abnormalities include cleft lip and palate and abnormalities of the brain, eye, heart, liver, pancreas, intestine, kidney, and genitalia.
meckels diverticulum	En medfödd missbildning kännetecknad av en utbuktning i ileum. Det är en kvarleva av embryots gulesäck, där äggulegången inte slutits.
mesentery; cyst	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
mesenteric cyst (disorder)	A rare intra-abdominal tumor in the MESENTERY. Mesenteric cysts are usually benign and can be very large fluid-filled (2000 mL) lesions.
rudimentary tongue	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
micromelic dwarf	The presence of abnormally small extremities. [HPO:probinson]
myotonic dystrophy	Neuromuscular disorder characterized by PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR ATROPHY; MYOTONIA, and various multisystem atrophies. Mild INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY may also occur. Abnormal TRINUCLEOTIDE REPEAT EXPANSION in the 3' UNTRANSLATED REGIONS of DMPK PROTEIN gene is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 1. DNA REPEAT EXPANSION of zinc finger protein-9 gene intron is associated with Myotonic Dystrophy 2.
teeth, natal	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
teeth; neonatal	Predeciduous teeth present at birth. They may be well formed and normal or may represent hornified epithelial structures without roots. They are found on the gingivae over the crest of the ridge and arise from accessory buds of the dental lamina ahead of the deciduous buds or from buds of the accessory dental lamina. (From Jablonski, Dictionary of Dentistry, 1992)
islet cell hyperplasia, nos	A sporadic or inherited disorder characterized by the focal or diffuse proliferation of the cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. It results in hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia.
neural tube defects	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neural tube defect (disorder)	Congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18-29 of gestation. Ectodermal and mesodermal malformations (mainly involving the skull and vertebrae) may occur as a result of defects of neural tube closure. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, pp31-41)
neurofibromatosis, bilateral acoustic	An autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a high incidence of bilateral acoustic neuromas as well as schwannomas (NEURILEMMOMA) of other cranial and peripheral nerves, and other benign intracranial tumors including meningiomas, ependymomas, spinal neurofibromas, and gliomas. The disease has been linked to mutations of the NF2 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2) on chromosome 22 (22q12) and usually presents clinically in the first or second decade of life.
oculocerebrorenal syndrome of lowe	A sex-linked recessive disorder affecting multiple systems including the EYE, the NERVOUS SYSTEM, and the KIDNEY. Clinical features include congenital CATARACT; MENTAL RETARDATION; and renal tubular dysfunction (FANCONI SYNDROME; RENAL TUBULAR ACIDOSIS; X-LINKED HYPOPHOSPHATEMIA or vitamin-D-resistant rickets) and SCOLIOSIS. This condition is due to a deficiency of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-5-phosphatase leading to defects in PHOSPHATIDYLINOSITOL metabolism and INOSITOL signaling pathway. (from Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p60; Am J Hum Genet 1997 Jun;60(6):1384-8)
oral facial digital syndrome	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
oro-facial-digital syndrome	Two syndromes of oral, facial, and digital malformations. Type I (Papillon-Leage and Psaume syndrome, Gorlin-Psaume syndrome) is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and is found only in females and XXY males. Type II (Mohr syndrome) is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
osgood schlatter disease	Morbus Osgood-Schlatter is a Juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the Tuberositas tibiae. [HPO:sdoelken]
pachydermoperiostosis of nail (disorder)	A condition chiefly characterized by thickening of the skin of the head and distal extremities, deep folds and furrows of the skin of the forehead, cheeks, and scalp, SEBORRHEA; HYPERHIDROSIS; periostosis of the long bones, digital clubbing, and spadelike enlargement of the hands and feet. It is more prevalent in the male, and is usually first evident during adolescence. Inheritance is primarily autosomal recessive, but an autosomal dominant form exists.
papillon-lefèvre syndrome	Rare, autosomal recessive disorder occurring between the first and fifth years of life. It is characterized by palmoplantar keratoderma with periodontitis followed by the premature shedding of both deciduous and permanent teeth. Mutations in the gene for CATHEPSIN C have been associated with this disease.
parovarian cysts	A cyst (CYSTS) near the OVARY, derived from anomalies of the FALLOPIAN TUBES or the BROAD LIGAMENT. The paramesonephric type consists of ciliated cells similar to the oviduct epithelium. The mesonephric type consisted of an epithelium with minimally surface structures. They can be found on the thin oviduct (paratubal cysts) or near its fimbriated end (hydatid of Morgagni).
persistent fetal circulation syndrome	A syndrome of persistent PULMONARY HYPERTENSION in the newborn infant (INFANT, NEWBORN) without demonstrable HEART DISEASES. This neonatal condition can be caused by severe pulmonary vasoconstriction (reactive type), hypertrophy of pulmonary arterial muscle (hypertrophic type), or abnormally developed pulmonary arterioles (hypoplastic type). The newborn patient exhibits CYANOSIS and ACIDOSIS due to the persistence of fetal circulatory pattern of right-to-left shunting of blood through a patent ductus arteriosus (DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS, PATENT) and at times a patent foramen ovale (FORAMEN OVALE, PATENT).
phocomelia, nos	Missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts (such as hands and/or feet) connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of proximal portion of limb	Missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts (such as hands and/or feet) connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
robin sequence	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
placenta previa (disorder)	Ett tillstånd när moderkakan är implanterad nära utloppet av livmodern och helt eller delvis täcker öppningen från livmodern till livmoderhalsen. Placenta previa är orsaken till antepartum (i sen graviditet) blödningar och förtidig förlossning.
congenital poikiloderma (diagnosis)	Autosomalt recessivt syndrom som förekommer huvudsakligen hos kvinnor och kännetecknas av retikulära, atrofiska, hyperpigmenterade, telangiekta hudplack. Ackompanjeras ofta av juvenil katarakt, sadelnäsa, medfödda skelettdefekter, rubbningar i tillväxten av hår, naglar och tänder samt hypogonadism.
poland	A syndrome which is characterized by symbrachydactyly and aplasia of the sternal head of pectoralis major.
poland's syndrome	A syndrome which is characterized by symbrachydactyly and aplasia of the sternal head of pectoralis major.
prader willis syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
big jaw	A condition marked by abnormal protrusion of the mandible. (Dorland, 27th ed)
subaortic conus, obstructive	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
respiratory system anomaly nos (disorder)	Congenital structural abnormalities of the respiratory system.
praa	An anatomic abnormality that occurs during embryonic development, in which the aortic arch is right-sided.
type i short rib polydactyly syndrome	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
saldino noonan syndrome	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
short-rib syndrome, type i	An extremely rare type of short rib polydactyly syndrome with neonatal onset. The disease has characteristics of polydactyly, hydropic appearance, and small thorax with short horizontal ribs causing fatal cardiorespiratory distress. Affected patients also have extreme micromelia ('flipper-like' extremities), pointed metaphyses and a range of other ossification defects. Extraskeletal manifestations may include polycystic kidneys, transposition of the great vessels and atresia of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary systems.
myotonic myopathy, dwarfism, chondrodystrophy, and ocular and facial abnormalities	A classification for rare genetic syndromes with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Clinical features include muscle stiffness and weakness, facial and skeletal abnormalities with joint contractures and short stature. Two types have been characterized: Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type I (SJSI) and Schwartz-Jampel Syndrome type II (SJSII). SJSI is associated with a mutation of the HSPG2 gene on chromosome 1 and has been further characterized into two subtypes IA and IB. SJSIA is more common, less severe in presentation and is seen later in childhood than SJSIB. For both SJSI subtypes, prognosis is favorable as the main feature of muscle stiffness is slowly progressive, if at all, and is compatible with a normal life span. SJSII is apparent at birth, shares the same clinical profile and mutation in the LIFR gene noted in Stuve-Wiedemann Syndrome and is thus presumed to be the same disorder. In contrast to SJSI, its presentation is more severe and likelihood of survivability is much lower.
scimitar syndrome (disorder)	An anomalous pulmonary venous return in which the right PULMONARY VEIN is not connected to the LEFT ATRIUM but to the INFERIOR VENA CAVA. Scimitar syndrome is named for the crescent- or Turkish sword-like shadow in the chest radiography and is often associated with hypoplasia of the right lung and right pulmonary artery, and dextroposition of the heart.
mermaid sirenomelia (disorder)	A disorder characterized by the malformation of the legs into a single lower limb.
congenital anomaly (skin)	Congenital structural abnormalities of the skin.
syndrome, sturge's	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sturge-weber-krabbe syndrome	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
sws	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
syndactyly nos	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the webbing between adjacent fingers or toes. Syndactylies are classified as complete or incomplete by the degree of joining. Syndactylies can also be simple or complex. Simple syndactyly indicates joining of only skin or soft tissue; complex syndactyly marks joining of bony elements.
syndactyly	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the webbing between adjacent fingers or toes. Syndactylies are classified as complete or incomplete by the degree of joining. Syndactylies can also be simple or complex. Simple syndactyly indicates joining of only skin or soft tissue; complex syndactyly marks joining of bony elements.
tetralogy, fallot	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
tooth abnorm	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
teeth abnormalities	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
crowding of teeth (disorder)	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
dental overcrowding	The condition when the summation of the mesio distal width of the teeth is larger than the arch perimeter.
teeth, supernumerary	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
compl transpos great ves	A congenital cardiovascular malformation in which the AORTA arises entirely from the RIGHT VENTRICLE, and the PULMONARY ARTERY arises from the LEFT VENTRICLE. Consequently, the pulmonary and the systemic circulations are parallel and not sequential, so that the venous return from the peripheral circulation is re-circulated by the right ventricle via aorta to the systemic circulation without being oxygenated in the lungs. This is a potentially lethal form of heart disease in newborns and infants.
common truncus arteriosus	A congenital anomaly caused by the failed development of TRUNCUS ARTERIOSUS into separate AORTA and PULMONARY ARTERY. It is characterized by a single arterial trunk that forms the outlet for both HEART VENTRICLES and gives rise to the systemic, pulmonary, and coronary arteries. It is always accompanied by a ventricular septal defect.
bourneville	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
ws	An autosomal recessive disorder that causes premature aging in adults, characterized by sclerodermal skin changes, cataracts, subcutaneous calcification, muscular atrophy, a tendency to diabetes mellitus, aged appearance of the face, baldness, and a high incidence of neoplastic disease.
pigmentosum; xeroderma	A rare, pigmentary, and atrophic autosomal recessive disease. It is manifested as an extreme photosensitivity to ULTRAVIOLET RAYS as the result of a deficiency in the enzyme that permits excisional repair of ultraviolet-damaged DNA.
zellweger dis	An autosomal recessive disorder due to defects in PEROXISOME biogenesis which involves more than 13 genes encoding peroxin proteins of the peroxisomal membrane and matrix. Zellweger syndrome is typically seen in the neonatal period with features such as dysmorphic skull; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; visual compromise; SEIZURES; progressive degeneration of the KIDNEYS and the LIVER. Zellweger-like syndrome refers to phenotypes resembling the neonatal Zellweger syndrome but seen in children or adults with apparently intact peroxisome biogenesis.
branchial cleft anomalies	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
hyperkeratoses, epidermolytic	A form of congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and characterized by ERYTHRODERMA and severe hyperkeratosis. It is manifested at birth by blisters followed by the appearance of thickened, horny, verruciform scales over the entire body, but accentuated in flexural areas. Mutations in the genes that encode KERATIN-1 and KERATIN-10 have been associated with this disorder.
ichthyosiformes, nonbullous erythroderma	A chronic, congenital ichthyosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Infants are usually born encased in a collodion membrane which sheds within a few weeks. Scaling is generalized and marked with grayish-brown quadrilateral scales, adherent at their centers and free at the edges. In some cases, scales are so thick that they resemble armored plate.
recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (disorder)	An autosomal recessive allelic variant of epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica caused by mutation(s) in the COL7A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(VII) chain.
ichthyosiform dermatosis	Designation for several severe forms of ichthyosis, present at birth, that are characterized by hyperkeratotic scaling. Infants may be born encased in a collodion membrane which begins shedding within 24 hours. This is followed in about two weeks by persistent generalized scaling. The forms include bullous (HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC), non-bullous (ICHTHYOSIS, LAMELLAR), wet type, and dry type.
ichthyosis; x-linked	Chronic form of ichthyosis that is inherited as a sex-linked recessive trait carried on the X-chromosome and transmitted to the male offspring. It is characterized by severe scaling, especially on the extremities, and is associated with steroid sulfatase deficiency.
cryptomerorachischisis	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
bifida, spina - occulta	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
closed spinal bifida	A common congenital midline defect of fusion of the vertebral arch without protrusion of the spinal cord or meninges. The lesion is also covered by skin. L5 and S1 are the most common vertebrae involved. The condition may be associated with an overlying area of hyperpigmented skin, a dermal sinus, or an abnormal patch of hair. The majority of individuals with this malformation are asymptomatic although there is an increased incidence of tethered cord syndrome and lumbar SPONDYLOSIS. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
dysraphism, spinal	Congenital defects of closure of one or more vertebral arches, which may be associated with malformations of the spinal cord, nerve roots, congenital fibrous bands, lipomas, and congenital cysts. These malformations range from mild (e.g., SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA) to severe, including rachischisis where there is complete failure of neural tube and spinal cord fusion, resulting in exposure of the spinal cord at the surface. Spinal dysraphism includes all forms of spina bifida. The open form is called SPINA BIFIDA CYSTICA and the closed form is SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1992, Ch55, p34)
occult spinal dysraphisms	A progressive neurological disorder characterized by the limitation of movement of the spinal cord within the spine. It is caused by the presence of congenital or acquired tissue attachments in the spinal cord. Signs and symptoms include low back pain, scoliosis, weakness in the legs, and incontinence.
familial benign chronic pemphigus (diagnosis)	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
aganglionosis, colonic	The severe form of Hirschsprung disease, this is characterized by a complete lack of nerve cells in the large intestine, and often a partial lack in the small intestine. The bowel is not stimulated without innervation and obstruction ensues. Surgical intervention is necessary.
congenital abnormality of the musculoskeletal system	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
chd - congenital heart disease	imperfections or malformations of the heart, existing at, and usually before, birth regardless of their causation.
talipes valgus	Outward turning of the heel, resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot. [HPO:probinson]
an interrupted aortic arch	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by the presence of a gap between the ascending and descending portions of the thoracic aorta. This disorder is often associated with ventricular septal defect, ductus arteriosus, or truncus arteriosus.
lens; absence, congenital	Absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect. [HPO:probinson]
hymen; imperforate	A congenital disorder where the hymen (a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening) does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina. [PMID:24822139]
congenital elevation of scapula (disorder)	A congenital skeletal deformity characterized by the elevation of one scapula (thus, one scapula is located superior to the other). [HPO:probinson]
madelung wrist deformity	An anomaly related to partial closure, or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate, which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius. This leads to shortening of the radius and relative overgrowth of the ulna. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12362035]
deformity madelung s	An anomaly related to partial closure, or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate, which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius. This leads to shortening of the radius and relative overgrowth of the ulna. [HPO:probinson, PMID:12362035]
congenital aortic valve insufficiency, unspecified	Dysfunction of the aortic valve characterized by incomplete valve closure that is present at birth.
cleft lip/palate	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
cleft palate lip	<p>Cleft lip and cleft palate are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/birthdefects.html">birth defects</a> that occur when a baby's lip or mouth do not form properly. They happen early during pregnancy. A baby can have a cleft lip, a cleft palate, or both.</p> <p>A cleft lip happens if the tissue that makes up the lip does not join completely before birth. This causes an opening in the upper lip. The opening can be a small slit or a large opening that goes through the lip into the nose. It can be on one or both sides of the lip or, rarely, in the middle of the lip.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip also can have a cleft palate. The roof of the mouth is called the "palate." With a cleft palate, the tissue that makes up the roof of the mouth does not join correctly. Babies may have both the front and back parts of the palate open, or they may have only one part open.</p> <p>Children with a cleft lip or a cleft palate often have problems with feeding and talking. They also might have ear infections, hearing loss, and problems with their teeth.</p> <p>Often, surgery can close the lip and palate. Cleft lip surgery is usually done before age 12 months, and cleft palate surgery is done before 18 months. Many children have other complications. They may need additional surgeries, dental and orthodontic care, and speech therapy as they get older. With treatment, most children with clefts do well and lead a healthy life.</p> <p class="">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention</p>
tongue absent (disorder)	Absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality. [HPO:probinson]
aplasia of lacrimal and salivary glands	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
absence; salivary gland	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
polycystic liver disease	A usually asymptomatic hereditary disorder which is often associated with polycystic kidney disease. It is characterized by the presence of fluid-filled biliary cysts throughout the liver.
congenital hepatic cyst	A usually asymptomatic hereditary disorder which is often associated with polycystic kidney disease. It is characterized by the presence of fluid-filled biliary cysts throughout the liver.
finger polydactyly	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers. [HPO:probinson]
accessory finger(s)	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers. [HPO:probinson]
polydactyly of toe	A kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes. [HPO:probinson]
fused forearm bones	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the ulna. [HPO:probinson]
macrodactylia of toe	A type of Macrodactyly affecting one or several toes. [HPO:probinson]
syndromes, neurofibromatosis	A group of disorders characterized by an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with high rates of spontaneous mutation and multiple neurofibromas or neurilemmomas. NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1 (generalized neurofibromatosis) accounts for approximately 95% of cases, although multiple additional subtypes (e.g., NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 2, neurofibromatosis 3, etc.) have been described. (From Neurochirurgie 1998 Nov;44(4):267-72)
kallmann syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
kallmann's syndrome	A genetically heterogeneous disorder caused by hypothalamic GNRH deficiency and OLFACTORY NERVE defects. It is characterized by congenital HYPOGONADOTROPIC HYPOGONADISM and ANOSMIA, possibly with additional midline defects. It can be transmitted as an X-linked (GENETIC DISEASES, X-LINKED), an autosomal dominant, or an autosomal recessive trait.
dubowitz's syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, and a small, round, triangular shaped face with a pointed, receding chin, a broad, wide-tipped nose, and wide-set eyes with drooping eyelids.
syndrome, rsh	An autosomal recessive disorder of CHOLESTEROL metabolism. It is caused by a deficiency of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase, the enzyme that converts 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol, leading to an abnormally low plasma cholesterol. This syndrome is characterized by multiple CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES, growth deficiency, and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
aarskog syndrome	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
monosomy 7q11.23	A disorder caused by hemizygous microdeletion of about 28 genes on chromosome 7q11.23, including the ELASTIN gene. Clinical manifestations include SUPRAVALVULAR AORTIC STENOSIS; MENTAL RETARDATION; elfin facies; impaired visuospatial constructive abilities; and transient HYPERCALCEMIA in infancy. The condition affects both sexes, with onset at birth or in early infancy.
tar; syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
multiple lentigines syndrome (disorder)	Ett syndrom som kännetecknas av lentigo, ekg-avvikelser, hypertelorism, pulmonalstenos, onormalt utvecklade könsorgan, hämmad växt och dövhet. Det beror på mutationer i PTPN11-genen, som kodar för protein-tyrosinfosfatas typ 11, ett icke-receptorprotein. De kliniska dragen delas med Noonans syndrom, som också beror på mutationer i PTPN11, och med neurofibromatos 1. Syndromet har även kopplats till mutationer i NF1-genen.
congenital absence of spleen syndrome	A type of heterotaxy where some paired structures on opposite sides of the left-right axis of the body are symmetrical mirror images of each other, and have the morphology of the normal right-sided structures. [PMID:21731561]
dysgenesis, corpus callosum	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
contiguous gene syndrome, wagr	A contiguous gene syndrome associated with hemizygous deletions of chromosome region 11p13. The condition is marked by the combination of WILMS TUMOR; ANIRIDIA; GENITOURINARY ABNORMALITIES; and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY.
rod myopathies	A group of inherited congenital myopathic conditions characterized clinically by weakness, hypotonia, and prominent hypoplasia of proximal muscles including the face. Muscle biopsy reveals large numbers of rod-shaped structures beneath the muscle fiber plasma membrane. This disorder is genetically heterogeneous and may occasionally present in adults. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1453)
regional odontodysplasia (disorder)	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
odontodysplasia	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
congenital anomaly of limb(s) nos	Congenital structural deformities of the upper and lower extremities collectively or unspecified.
contractures, multiple with arachnodactyly	An autosomal dominant connective tissue disorder caused by mutation(s) in the FBN2 gene, encoding fibrillin-2. It is characterized by contractures, arachnodactyly, scoliosis, micrognathia, and crumpled ears.
hemifacial microsomia with radial defect syndrome (disorder)	A rare branchial arches and limb primordia development disorder with characteristics of variable degrees of uni or bilateral craniofacial malformation and radial defects that result in extremely variable phenotypic manifestations. Characteristic features include low postnatal weight, short stature, vertebral defects, hearing loss, and facial dysmorphism (including facial asymmetry, external, middle and inner ear malformations, orofacial clefts, and mandibular hypoplasia). These features are invariably associated with radial defects, such as preaxial polydactyly, thumb and/or radius hypoplasia/agenesis, or triphalangeal thumb. Cardiac, pulmonary, renal, and central nervous system involvement has also been reported.
hydrocephalus with cleft palate and joint contracture syndrome (disorder)	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
maxillonasal dysplasia	A rare developmental anomaly, affecting primarily the anterior part of the maxilla and nasal complex. Affected individuals typically have an unusually flat, underdeveloped midface, with an abnormally short nose and flat nasal bridge, underdeveloped upper jaw, relatively protruding lower jaw and/or a 'reverse overbite'' (or class III malocclusion). Hypoplasia of distal phalanges of fingers was reported in some cases. The pathogenesis remains uncertain, most reported cases were sporadic.
bixler christian gorlin syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of the combination of hypertelorism, cleft lip and palate and microtia. Nine cases have been reported in the literature in seven families. Some patients have associated cardiac or renal congenital malformations. Short stature and intellectual deficiency are common. The reported cases support autosomal recessive inheritance.
craniofrontonasal syndrome	An X-linked malformation syndrome characterized by facial asymmetry (particularly orbital), body asymmetry, midline defects (hypertelorism, frontal bossing, broad grooved or bifid nasal tip, cleft lip and/or palate, high arched palate), skeletal anomalies (clavicle pseudoarthrosis, coronal craniosynostosis, various digital and limb anomalies including syndactyly, clinodactyly of the 5th finger, broad thumbs) and ectodermal dysplasias (dental anomalies, grooved nails, wiry hair).
hypoglossia-hypodactyly syndrome	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
common atrioventricular canal	A congenital heart defect characterized by a specific combination of heart defects with a common atrioventricular valve, primum atrial septal defect and inlet ventricular septal defect. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:16722604]
webbing neck	A congenital, usually bilateral, thick web-like fold of skin that extends from the acromion to the mastoid process. This deformity is associated with Turner Syndrome and Noonan Syndrome.
syndactyly of fingers without fusion of bone	Webbing or fusion of the fingers, involving soft parts only or including bone structure. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the fingers in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:curators]
malformation of finger syndactyly (physical finding)	Webbing or fusion of the fingers, involving soft parts only or including bone structure. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the fingers in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:curators]
brachydactyly nos	Congenital anomaly of abnormally short fingers or toes.
port wine stain	A vascular malformation of developmental origin characterized pathologically by ectasia of superficial dermal capillaries, and clinically by persistent macular erythema. In the past, port wine stains have frequently been termed capillary hemangiomas, which they are not; unfortunately this confusing practice persists: HEMANGIOMA, CAPILLARY is neoplastic, a port-wine stain is non-neoplastic. Port-wine stains vary in color from fairly pale pink to deep red or purple and in size from a few millimeters to many centimeters in diameter. The face is the most frequently affected site and they are most often unilateral. (From Rook et al., Textbook of Dermatology, 5th ed, p483)
diaphragm; defect, congenital with hernia	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
landouzy-déjérine muscular dystrophy	En autosomalt dominant, degenerativ muskelsjukdom som kännetecknas av långsamt tilltagande svaghet i ansiktets, överarmens och skuldergördelns muskler. Symtomen debuterar vanligtvis under livets första eller andra årtionde. De drabbade uppvisar oftast försämrad förmåga att höja armarna. Dessa tecken brukar följas av ansiktsmuskelsvaghet, främst i munnens och ögats ringmuskler.
male pseudohermaphroditism (disorder)	Hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia. In male pseudohermaphroditism, the genotype is male (XY) and the external genitalia are imcompletely virilized, ambiguous, or complete female. If gonads are present, they are testes. [HPO:curators]
posterior urethral valves	A developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of an obstructing membrane in the posterior urethra of the male newborn. It results in bladder obstruction.
adactyly	The absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues. [PMID:19125433]
aphalangy	The absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues. [PMID:19125433]
low-set ear	Upper insertion of the ear to the scalp below an imaginary horizontal line drawn between the inner canthi of the eye and extending posteriorly to the ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421]
harlequin baby syndromes	A very rare and usually lethal autosomal recessive inherited disorder of the skin caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. It is characterized by the presence of hard and thick skin. There are diamond-like plates formed in the skin which are separated by fissures.
vertical talus	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
pes valgus, congenital convex	The presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
digitalized thumb	A thumb with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. Thus, this term applies if the thumb has an accessory phalanx, leading to a digit like appearance of the thumb. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
triphalangeal thumbs	A thumb with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. Thus, this term applies if the thumb has an accessory phalanx, leading to a digit like appearance of the thumb. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
cross bites	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
bites, cross	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
cross bite	An abnormal occlusion where some of the mandibular teeth are buccal to the maxillary teeth.
treacher collins syndrome	A hereditary disorder occurring in two forms: the complete form (Franceschetti's syndrome) is characterized by antimongoloid slant of the palpebral fissures, COLOBOMA of the lower lid, MICROGNATHIA and hypoplasia of the ZYGOMATIC ARCHES, and CONGENITAL MICROTIA. It is transmitted as an autosomal trait. The incomplete form (Treacher Collins syndrome) is characterized by the same anomalies in less pronounced degree. It occurs sporadically, but an autosomal dominant mode of transmission is suspected. (Dorland, 27th ed)
kpa	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
clastothrix	Trichorrhexis nodosa is the formation of nodes along the hair shaft through which breakage readily occurs. It is thus a focal defect in the hair fiber that is characterized by thickening or weak points (nodes) that cause the hair to break off easily. The result is defective, abnormally fragile hair. [HPO:curators]
clastothrix (disorder)	Trichorrhexis nodosa is the formation of nodes along the hair shaft through which breakage readily occurs. It is thus a focal defect in the hair fiber that is characterized by thickening or weak points (nodes) that cause the hair to break off easily. The result is defective, abnormally fragile hair. [HPO:curators]
saddle nose	Nasal ridge curving posteriorly to an imaginary line that connects the nasal root and tip. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152422]
weaver-smith syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene, and rarely mutations in the NSD1 gene. It is characterized by advanced bone age, foot deformities, permanently bent joints, macrocephaly, flattened back of the head, a broad forehead, hypertelorism, large, low-set ears, micrognathia, delayed development of motor skills, and mild intellectual disability.
lissencephaly syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
miller-dieker syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare syndrome caused by deletion of genetic material in the short arm of chromosome 17. It is characterized by an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. It results in intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, spasticity, hypotonia, and feeding difficulties. Affected individuals have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, small, upturned nose, low-set ears, small jaw, and thick upper lip.
hypothalamic hamartoblastoma, hypopituitarism, imperforate anus, and postaxial polydactyly	A pleiotropic disorder of human development that comprises hypothalamic HAMARTOMA; central and postaxial POLYDACTYLY; bifid EPIGLOTTIS; ANAL ATRESIA; and renal and other abnormalities. This disorder is associated with FRAMESHIFT MUTATIONS in the GLI3 gene which encodes the GLI3 protein, a KRUPPEL-LIKE TRANSCRIPTION FACTORS family member.
syndrome, warburg	Rare autosomal recessive lissencephaly type 2 associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY and eye anomalies (e.g., RETINAL DETACHMENT; CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS). It is often associated with additional brain malformations such as HYDROCEPHALY and cerebellar hypoplasia and is the most severe form of the group of related syndromes (alpha-dystroglycanopathies) with common congenital abnormalities in the brain, eye and muscle development.
royer's syndrome (disorder)	Spojení diabetes mellitus se syndromem Prader-Williho.
whistling face syndrome	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
schinzel-giedon syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutation(s) in the SETBP1 gene, encoding SET-binding protein. It is characterized by unique facial features, including midface hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
cryptophthalmos; syndrome	Rare autosomal recessive congenital malformation syndrome characterized by cryptophthalmos, SYNDACTYLY and UROGENITAL ABNORMALITIES. Other anomalies of bone, ear, lung, and nose are common. Mutations on FRAS1 and FREM2 are associated with the syndrome.
melnick-fraser syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder manifested by various combinations of preauricular pits, branchial fistulae or cysts, lacrimal duct stenosis, hearing loss, structural defects of the outer, middle, or inner ear, and renal dysplasia. Associated defects include asthenic habitus, long narrow facies, constricted palate, deep overbite, and myopia. Hearing loss may be due to Mondini type cochlear defect and stapes fixation. (Jablonski's Dictionary of Syndromes & Eponymic Diseases, 2d ed)
deafness, myopia, cataract, saddle nose-marshall type	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(XI) chain. The syndrome may be characterized by facial dysmorphism, cataracts, myopia, hearing loss, and short stature. Mutation(s) in the COL11A1 gene are causative in Stickler syndrome, but the phenotype of Marshall syndrome is more mild.
oculoauriculovertebral dysplasia	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
facio-auriculo-vertebral spectrum	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
deafness, sensorineural, with imperforate anus and thumb anomalies	An autosomal dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. Clinical manifestations include imperforate anus, malformations in the ears and hands, hearing loss, and kidney and heart abnormalities.
opd i syndrome	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
coffin-lowry syndrome (disorder)	Vzácný syndrom mentální retardace vázaný na chromozom X, který je způsobený mutacemi genu pro kinázu ribozomálního proteinu S6. K typickým příznakům nemoci patří IQ menší než 50, abnormality obličeje a další malformace.
wagner-stickler syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the COL11A1, COL11A2, and COL2A1 genes which affect the production of type II and XI collagen. It is characterized by a range of signs and symptoms including cleft palate, large tongue, small lower jaw, hearing loss, myopia, glaucoma, retinal detachment, skeletal, and joint abnormalities.
autosomal dominant popliteal pterygium syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
web; popliteal syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
pterygium syndrome	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
heart-hand syndrome	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
holt-oram syndrome [dup] (disorder)	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
holt-oram	characterized by malformations of bones of the thumbs, hands and forearms and/or abnormalities of the heart; in many infants, the thumbs and wrists may be absent, underdeveloped or have an extra bone; scapulae, clavicles, and/or other bones may also be abnormal.
leri-weill dyschondrosteosis	A bone growth disorder inherited in a pseudoautosomal dominant pattern caused by mutations in the SHOX gene. It is characterized by short long bones in the arms and legs, short stature, and abnormalities of the wrist and forearm bones which may cause pain and limit wrist movement.
peutz-jeghers harmatoma of small intestine	A non-neoplastic hamartomatous polyp that arises from the small intestine. It is characterized by the presence of smooth muscle branching bands, and cystic mucosal changes.
bannayan syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
riley-smith syndrome	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
macrocephaly with multiple lipomas and haemangiomas	A genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the PTEN gene. It is characterized by macrocephaly and the presence of hamartomas. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C3939" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C3939" NCI Thesaurus)
moynahan alopecia syndrome	A rare genetic epilepsy syndrome with characteristics of congenital alopecia, early-onset epilepsy, intellectual disability and speech delay. Large stature, delayed bone development and abnormal electroencephalogram have also been associated.
pachyonychia congenita	A group of inherited ectodermal dysplasias whose most prominent clinical feature is hypertrophic nail dystrophy resulting in PACHYONYCHIA. Several specific subtypes of pachyonychia congenita have been associated with mutations in genes that encode KERATINS.
css	A rare genetic disorder with an undetermined pattern of inheritance affecting mostly females. Clinical signs at birth include recurrent respiratory infections, poor feeding, hypotonia, joint laxity and characteristic shortened fifth digits with hypoplastic or absent nails and craniofacial appearance: microcephaly, wide nose and lips, sparse scalp hair but thick eyebrows and eyelashes. The clinical course includes developmental delays in motor skills and speech with associated moderate mental retardation.
leprechaunism	Rare autosomal recessive syndrome of extreme insulin resistance due to mutations in the binding domain of INSULIN RECEPTOR. Clinical features include severe intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction, characteristic dysmorphic FACIES; HIRSUTISM; VIRILIZATION; multiple endocrine abnormalities, and early death.
foetal hydantoin syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
congenital absence of part of limb	Partial absence of a free limb (excluding girdle). It can refer to the proximal, middle or distal segment of the upper or lower limb. The deficiency may be transverse or longitudinal. Thus, meromelia is a lack of a part, but not all, of one or more limbs with the presence of a hand or foot. [UToronto:chum]
limb duplication	Congenital duplication of all or part of a limb. []
congenital musculoskeletal deformity limb dimelia	Congenital duplication of all or part of a limb. []
megalodactyly	A condition in which a finger or toe is larger than normal size secondary to excessive growth of the anatomical structures or abnormal accumulation of substances.
syndactyly of multiple and unspecified sites	A rare anatomical malformation characterized by polydactyly (extra fingers or toes) and syndactyly (webbed fingers or toes).
congenital hand deformity lobster-claw	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
split-hand	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
lobster-claw hand	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
dislocated radial heads	A dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint. [HPO:curators]
phocomelia of upper limb (disorder) [ambiguous]	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
phocomelia of upper limb, nos	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
phocomelia of upper limb (diagnosis)	Missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts (the hands) connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of hand	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
accessory carpal bones	The presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones. [HPO:curators]
congenital deformity of hip joint, nos	Any anatomic abnormality of the hip that is present at the time of birth.
apodia	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
proximal phocomelia of lower limb	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
congenital talipes equinovalgus	A deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards. [HPO:probinson]
tarsal coalition (diagnosis)	Synostosis (bony fusion) involving one or more bones of the tarsus (calcaneus, talus, cuboid, navicular, cuneiiform bones). [HPO:probinson]
toe syndactyly	Webbing or fusion of the toes, involving soft parts only or including bone structure. Bony fusions are referred to as bony" Syndactyly if the fusion occurs in a radio-ulnar axis. Fusions of bones of the toes in a proximo-distal axis are referred to as "Symphalangism"." [HPO:curators]
congenital pseudarthrosis of tibia (disorder)	A condition characterized by non-union of the tibia, which is present at birth. It is usually associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.
hernia, morgagni	An anterior retrosternal or parasternal hernia that can result in the herniation of liver or intestines into the chest cavity. []
hernia of bochdalek	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
bochdalek hernia	A posterolateral defect in the diaphragm, commonly referred to as a Bochdalek hernia, which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach, intestines, liver, and/or spleen into the chest cavity. []
bilobed right lung	A developmental defect of pulmonary lobation characterized by the presence of only two lobes of the right lung. [PMID:19500772]
infantile lobar emphysema	A rare abnormality in the lungs that is present at birth. It is characterized by hyperinflation of one or more lobes of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear early in life and include dyspnea, wheezing, and cyanosis.
double outlet left ventricle (disorder)	A congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
right ventricular hypoplasia (diagnosis)	Uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium, normal tricuspid valve, and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium. [PMID:10859296, PMID:16322929]
primary endocardial fibroelastosis	Endocardial fibroelastosis unassociated with other cardiac abnormalities.
postductal aortic coarctation (disorder)	Narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized distal to the ductus arteriosus, i.e., to the postductal region of aortic arch. [DDD:dbrown]
aortic arch hypoplasia	An underdeveloped aortic arch that is present at birth. This symptom is usually found in association with other cardiac defects that characterize left heart syndrome.
persistent; aortic arch, double	A conenital abnormality of the aortic arch in which the two embryonic aortc arches form a vascular ring that surrounds the trachea or esophagus and then join to form the descending aorta. Double aortic arch can cause symptoms because of compression of the esophagus (dysphagia, cyanosis while eating) or trachea (stridor). [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson, PMID:15148283, PMID:15564538]
diverticulum of kommerell	A patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring. [DDD:dbrown]
overriding aortic valve	An overriding aorta is a congenital heart defect where the aorta is positioned directly over a ventricular septal defect, instead of over the left ventricle. The result is that the aorta receives some blood from the right ventricle, which reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood. It is one of the four conditions of the Tetralogy of Fallot. The aortic root can be displaced toward the front (anteriorly) or directly above the septal defect, but it is always abnormally located to the right of the root of the pulmonary artery. The degree of override is quite variable, with 5-95% of the valve being connected to the right ventricle. [HPO:curators]
left-sided superior vena cava	A rare congenital vascular anomaly that results when the left superior cardinal vein caudal to the innominate vein fails to regress. [PMID:18847480]
progressive symmetric erythrokeratodermia	An autosomal dominant skin disease characterized by transient and variable noninflammatory ERYTHEMA and hyperkeratosis. It has been associated with mutations in the genes that code for CONNEXINS. Erythrokeratodermia variabilis inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion has also been reported. Affected individuals often develop PALMOPLANTAR KERATODERMA.
ichthyosis linearis circumflexa (disorder)	Rare autosomal recessive disease with variable expressions. Clinical features of the disease include variable ICHTHYOSIFORM ERYTHRODERMA, CONGENITAL; bamboo hair (trichorrhexis invaginata); and ATOPIC DERMATITIS. The disease is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene.
dyskeratosis congenita	A predominantly X-linked recessive syndrome characterized by a triad of reticular skin pigmentation, nail dystrophy and leukoplakia of mucous membranes. Oral and dental abnormalities may also be present. Complications are a predisposition to malignancy and bone marrow involvement with pancytopenia. (from Int J Paediatr Dent 2000 Dec;10(4):328-34) The X-linked form is also known as Zinsser-Cole-Engman syndrome and involves the gene which encodes a highly conserved protein called dyskerin.
hereditary benign intraepithelial dyskeratosis (disorder)	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with variable penetrance. It was initially described among Native Americans belonging to the Haliwa-Saponi tribe of northeastern North Carolina. It is caused by a duplication of chromosomal DNA at 4q35. Clinical signs present in early childhood and include asymptomatic plaques of the epibulbar conjunctivae and oral mucosa. Clinical progression of the plaques to malignancy has not been reported.
hopf acrokeratosis verruciformis	A rare genetic skin keratinization disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. It is characterized by numerous flesh-colored warty papules on the back of the hands, medial aspect of the feet, knees, and elbows.
follicular naevus	A type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged, dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones. [PMID:23888253]
congenital absent nails	Aplasia of the nail. [HPO:probinson]
congenital duplication of digestive organs (disorder)	A spherical hollow structure with a smooth muscle coat, lined by a mucous membrane, and attached to any part of the gastrointestinal tract, from the base of the tongue to the anus. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21218094]
moon's molar teeth	Mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating, as the name implies, the surface of a mulberry. [HPO:19179952]
gemination of teeth (disorder)	The development of two teeth from a single tooth bud, leading to a larger fused tooth. [PMID:18167487]
tooth gemination (diagnosis)	The development of two teeth from a single tooth bud, leading to a larger fused tooth. [PMID:18167487]
pearls; enamel	Small nodules of enamel on the root of a tooth. [PMID:31468724]
large tooth	Increased size of the teeth, which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter (width) more than 2 SD above mean for age. Alternatively, an apparently increased maximum width of the tooth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:19125428]
cone-shaped teeth	An abnormal conical form of the teeth, that is, a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:31468724]
cementum; hypoplasia	The decrease or absence of cementum. The cementum anchors the periodontal ligament attachment fiber between the tooth root and the alveolar bone. Its absence leads to early loss of teeth. [PMID:31468724]
open anterior bite	Anterior open bite is a malocclusion characterized by a gap between the anterior teeth (incisors), that is, by a deficiency in the normal vertical overlap between antagonist incisal edges when the posterior teeth are in occlusion. [HPO:ibailleulforestier, PMID:27615261]
open bite between upper and lower teeth	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
bites open	A condition in which certain opposing teeth fail to establish occlusal contact when the jaws are closed.
posterior openbite	<p>Posterior open bite</p>
cheilognathouranoschisis	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the lip, hard and/or soft palate and upper jaw.
bifid; tongue	Tongue with a median apical indentation or fork. [PMID:19125428]
congenital malformations of esophagus	A structural abnormality of the esophagus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital duplication of esophagus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of a duplicated segment of the esophagus. The duplicated segment may by tubular or cystic.
h-type congenital tracheesophageal fistula	Congenital tracheoesophageal fistula without esophageal atresia.
congenital gastric hypoplasia	A developmental anomaly wtih a small tubular or saccular midline stomach. [PMID:10067744]
agenesis; gallbladder	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
agenesis of liver	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
pancreatic hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
duct;thyroglossal;persistent	Congenital finding/remnant of thyroglossal duct. (INHAND)
duplex kidney	A congenital abnormality of the kidney characterized by the presence of two separate pelvicocaliceal systems with a single or duplex ureter.
kidney, lobulated	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
allanson pantzar mcleod syndrome	A developmental defect characterized by absence or poor development of proximal renal tubules. [HPO:probinson]
hydroureter - congenital	Dilatation of the ureter caused by obstruction of urine flow that is present at birth.
urethral valve formation (disorder)	The presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra. [HPO:probinson]
persistent umbilical sinus	A congenital abnormality that results from the failure of the lumen of urachus to be obliterated. It presents with leakage of urine from the bladder through the umbilicus.
true hermaphrodite	A rare condition characterized by the unequivocal presence of both testicular and ovarian tissues in an individual. It is usually manifested with ambiguous external genitalia.
true hermaphroditism	A rare condition characterized by the unequivocal presence of both testicular and ovarian tissues in an individual. It is usually manifested with ambiguous external genitalia.
intersex genitalia	A rare congenital abnormality in which the infant's external genitalia do not have the typical appearance of a male's or female's genitalia.
undescended ovary	Undescended or ectopic ovaries are characterized by the attachment of the upper pole of the ovary to an area above the level of the common iliac vessels. [PMID:12584384]
ovary; streak	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
ovarian streak	A developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo, leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells, and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells. [HPO:probinson]
oviduct; supernumerary	The presence of a supernumerary Fallopian tube. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23532389]
anomalies congenital uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
congenital abnormal uterus	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of uterus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
uterus with only one functioning horn	A uterus that has a single horn, with a banana-like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn. [PMID:28811816]
congenital hypoplasia of uterus, nos	Underdevelopment of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
anomalies aplasia cervix	Congenital absence of the cervix. []
septate vagina	The presence of a vaginal septum, thereby creating a vaginal duplication. The septum is longitudinal in the majority of cases. [HPO:curators]
testicular regression syndrome	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
xy gonadal agenesis/dysgenesis syndrome	A condition characterized by typical male genital appearance in a 46,XY individual in whom testes are unable to be located.
monorchism (diagnosis)	Having only one testis in the scrotum. [HPO:probinson]
extra; testis	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
testis; supernumerary	The presence of more than two testes. [HPO:probinson]
congenital aplasia of vas deferens	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
vas deferens absent	Aplasia (congenital absence) of the vas deferens. [HPO:probinson]
congenital atresia of vas deferens (diagnosis)	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
vas deferens atresia	Abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens. []
brain deformity	<p>Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancyandmedicines.html">medicines</a>, <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/infectionsandpregnancy.html">infections</a>, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.</p> <p>Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.</p> <p>There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/craniofacialabnormalities.html">Craniofacial disorders</a> are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke</p>
meningoencephalocele (disorder)	Herniation of brain and meninges through a cranial opening. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
lissencephaly (diagnosis)	A smooth brain malformation of the CEREBRAL CORTEX resulting from the abnormal location of developing neurons during corticogenesis. It is characterized by an absence of normal convoluted indentations on the surface of the brain (agyria), or fewer and shallower indentations (pachygryia). There is a reduced number of cortical layers, typically 4 instead of 6, resulting in a thickened cortex, and reduced cerebral white matter that is a reversal of the normal ratio of cerebral white matter to cortex.
hypoplasia cerebellum	Hypoplasia of the cerebellum that is associated with inherited metabolic disorders and neurodegenerative disorders. Signs and symptoms include mental and developmental delays, walking and balance difficulties, floppy muscle tone, and seizures.
paraphyseal cyst of third ventricle	An epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material. The gelatinous material commonly contains mucin, old blood, cholesterol, and ions. Most colloid cysts identified are currently asymptomatic and identified incidentally on imaging. When a colloid cyst does cause issues, it most commonly causes obstructive hydrocephalus. [PMID:30542631]
schizencephalies	A rare developmental abnormality characterized by the presence of clefs in the cerebral hemispheres. The abnormality may involve one or both cerebral hemispheres. Signs and symptoms include developmental delays, mental retardation, paralysis, presence of a small head, and seizures.
ectopic neuronal tissue ecchordosis physaliphora	A very rare, slow growing, usually asymptomatic hamartomatous lesion that arises from ectopic notochordal tissue. Morphologically it is characterized by the presence of typical physaliphorous cells in a myxoid background.
sinus pericranii (disorder)	Vzácné anomální spojení mezi intrakraniálním a extrakraniálním žilním oběhem přes diploe, střední houbovitou vrstvu lebečních kostí. Abnormální drenáž intrakraniálních žilních splavů vede často k dilataci žilních struktur skalpu. Onemocnění může být vrozené nebo způsobené poraněním.
congenital lamellar cataract	A congenital cataract in which opacity is limited to layers of the lens external to the nucleus (i.e., the perinuclear region), i.e., between the nuclear and cortical layers of the lens. [HPO:probinson]
zonular cataract	A congenital cataract in which opacity is limited to layers of the lens external to the nucleus (i.e., the perinuclear region), i.e., between the nuclear and cortical layers of the lens. [HPO:probinson]
microcornea (disorder)	A congenital abnormality of the cornea in which the cornea and the anterior segment of the eye are smaller than normal. The horizontal diameter of the cornea does not reach 10 mm even in adulthood. [HPO:probinson]
phpv	A developmental ocular anomaly in which the primary VITREOUS BODY and its surrounding hyaloid vasculature failed to regress. It is usually unilateral and characterized by CATARACT; MICROPHTHALMOS (small eyeballs), and retrolenticular fibrovascular tissue. (from Yanoff: Ophthalmology, 2nd ed.)
deformity; eyelid, congenital	The abnormal formation of the eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
eyelid; ptosis, congenital	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
ptosis congenital	The drooping of the upper or lower eyelid that is present at the time of birth.
ear malformation	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
michel deformity	Absence of the inner ear due to a developmental defect. [DDD:dfitzpatrick]
ambiguus viscerum, situs	The abnormal arrangement or position of thoracic and/or abdominal organs in relation to each other, often occurring in a right/left transposition.
blight ovum	Pregnancy loss with visible gestational sac or yolk sac or both but no visible embryo on ultrasonogram.
cyclopian defect	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
celosomial monster (disorder)	Congenital protrusion of the abdominal or thoracic viscera, usually with a defect of the sternum and ribs as well as of the abdominal walls. [HPO:sdoelken]
placenta bipartita	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
placenta percreta (physical finding)	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium and serosa. It may further extend into an adjacent organ such as the bladder.
placenta percreta (disorder)	Histologically-confirmed deep attachment of the placenta into the myometrium and serosa. It may further extend into an adjacent organ such as the bladder.
multipartita; placenta	A variant placenta in which the chorionic tissue is partitioned into more than two distinct discs, without consistent relationship to umbilical cord insertion.
placenta circumvallata (disorder)	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes that are folded along all or part of the disc perimeter. The amnion may or may not be included in the folded tissue.
placenta circummarginate (disorder)	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
placenta circummarginata	A placenta characterized by fetal membranes which extend smoothly off the disc edge, and a subamnionic fibrin ring on all or part of the disc perimeter that delimits the greatest extent of the chorionic surface vessels.
marginal umbilical cord insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion at the disc edge.
velamentous umbilical cord insertion	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
velamentous insertion of umbilical cord	The location of the umbilical cord insertion on the extraplacental membranes.
esophagobronchial fistula	An abnormal connection between a bronchus and the esophagus.
galactosialidosis	An autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutation(s) in the CTSA gene, encoding lysosomal protective protein. It is characterized by a combined deficiency of neuraminidase and beta-galactosidase.
5 alpha-reductase deficiency (diagnosis)	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
3-oxo-5 alpha-steroid delta 4-dehydrogenase deficiency (disorder)	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene. It is characterized by deficiency of the enzyme steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. It results in disruption of the formation of male genitalia. Patients present with pseudohermaphroditism.
partial androgen insensitivities	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
pais - partial androgen insensitivity syndrome	Neúplná nebo částečná androgenní necitlivost (PAIS) s variabilním fenotypem.
junctional epidermolysis bullosa non-herlitz type	A subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB) with characteristics of skin and mucosal blistering, nail dystrophy or nail absence and enamel hypoplasia. Postinflammatory hypopigmentation or dyspigmentation may be striking in some patients. A generalised subtype with atrophic scarring and more extensive extracutaneous involvement has been described as well as a milder localised subtype. Caused by mutations in the COL17A1 (10q24.3) and LAMA3 (18q11.2), LAMB3 (1q32) and LAMC2 (1q25-q31) genes. The condition follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
mat deficiency	A metabolic disorder usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MAT1A gene. Affected individuals usually do not have clinical abnormalities.
inspissated bile syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome characterized by persistent jaundice, hemolytic anemia, and hepatomegaly in a newborn. It is characterized by the presence of inspissated bile plugs in the bile ducts.
floppy infant	A syndrome of generalized poor muscle tone and muscle weakness presenting in a newborn infant.
de lange	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
retinitis pigmentosa-deafness syndrome	hereditary disorder believed to occur in two forms: (1) characterized by congenital deafness and severe retinitis pigmentosa, and (2) in which the inner ear and retina are less severely affected; most cases are transmitted as autosomal recessive trait, but some forms are X-linked.
laron-type pituitary dwarfism	En autosomal, recessiv störning, kännetecknad av kort kroppsväxt, defekt tillväxthormonreceptor och oförmåga att producera insulinliknande tillväxtfaktor I från tillväxthormonet. Syndromet är inte en form av hypofysär dvärgväxt, utan beror på en mutation i GHR-genen på kromosom 5 hos människa.
thyroid hormone organification defect ii b	A condition associated with reduced export of iodide across the apical membrane of the follicular cells of the thyroid gland that may progress to hypothyroidism. Pendred syndrome is associated with an increased risk of goiter and sensorineural hearing loss due to malformations of the inner ear (vestibular system). Inactivating mutations in the SLC26A4 gene encoding the pendrin transport protein are responsible for the condition.
schwachmann-diamond syndrome (disorder)	A rare, inherited disorder in which the pancreas and bone marrow do not work the way they should. Symptoms include problems digesting food, a low number of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell), bone problems, and being short. Infants with the disorder get bacterial infections and are at an increased risk of aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and leukemia.
cryptophthalmos nos	Cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek, in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin, which is stretched over the orbital cavity. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125427]
septo optic dysplasia with growth hormone deficiency	Soubor příznaků dysplazie postihující struktury středního mozku v kombinaci s hypoplazií optických nervů, chiasma opticum a tractus opticus. Typická je ageneze septum pellucidum, částečná nebo úplná ageneze corpus callosum a malformace fornixu. Mohou být i abnormality endokrinního systému, v rozsahu od izolovaných deficiencí (deficience růstového hormonu, hypotyroidismus, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus) až po panhypopituitarismus. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2018 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
usher syndrome type 2	A syndrome characterized by congenital, bilateral sensorineural hearing loss that is mild to moderate in the low frequencies and severe to profound in the higher frequencies, no abnormalities in the vestibular system, and retinitis pigmentosa.
capillary malformations, congenital	A capillary malformation is a flat, sharply defined vascular stain of the skin. It may cover a large surface area or it may be scattered and appear as little islands of color. In a capillary maformation, the predominant vessels are small, slow-flow vessels (i.e., arterioles and postcapillary venules). [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
endemic cretinism (disorder)	Severely reduced physical and mental growth associated with pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, due to dietary iodine deficiency.
hypogonadism, alopecia, diabetes mellitus, mental retardation, deafness, and extrapyramidal syndrome	Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome is a multisystemic disorder with characteristics of hypogonadism, alopecia, diabetes mellitus, intellectual deficit and extrapyramidal signs with choreoathetoid movements and dystonia. The onset is usually in adolescence. Additional manifestations may include sensorineural deafness, flattened T waves on ECG, seizures, sensory polyneuropathy, dysarthria, various craniofacial abnormalities (high forehead, flat occiput, triangular face, prominent nasal root, hypertelorism, and down-slanting palpebral fissures), scoliosis, hyperreflexia, and camptodactyly. Associated with mutations in the DCAF17 gene (2q31.1), encoding a nucleolar protein of unknown function. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia	Congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from the deposition of lipid in the adrenal glands due to a defect of intracellular cholesterol transport or metabolism. The condition is characterized by deficiencies of glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and sex steroids: 46,XY infants are undervirilized, whereas 46,XX infants have no genital manifestations.
lymphangioma circumscriptum (disorder)	A localized lymphangioma characterized by microcystic changes.
hypoplasia of corpus callosum	Underdevelopment of the corpus callosum. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
cataract 7	Cerulean cataracts are a kind of congenital cataract having peripheral bluish and white opacifications in concentric layers with occasional central lesions arranged radially. Although the opacities may be observed during fetal development and childhood, usually visual acuity is only mildly reduced until adulthood, when lens extraction is generally necessary. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19496508, PMID:9158139]
cornea plana (disorder)	Cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing. The reduced corneal curvature can lead to hyperopia, and a hazy corneal limbus and arcus lipoides may develop at an early age. [HPO:probinson]
cornea globular (disorder)	An enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function. Megalocornea is diagnosed with a horizontal corneal diameter of 12 mm or more at birth or 13 mm or more after two years of age. [HPO:curators]
hypoplastic irides	Congenital underdevelopment of the iris. [HPO:probinson]
ppm - persistent pupillary membranes	The presence of remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil. [HPO:probinson]
peters anomaly	A form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs. Peters anomaly is characterized by central, paracentral, or complete corneal opacity. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal atrioventricular connexion	An abnormality of the circulatory connection between atria and ventricles. [DDD:dbrown]
tetralogy of fallot with pulmonary stenosis (diagnosis)	The commonest form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by pulmonary stenosis, overriding aorta, ventricular septum defect, and right ventricular hypertrophy, without pulmonary atresia, absent pulmonary valve, atrioventricular canal defect or absent subarterial conus. [HPO:probinson]
fallot's type pulmonary atresia	An extreme form of tetralogy of Fallot characterized by absence of flow from the right ventricle to the pulmonary arteries. [ORCID:0000-0001-5208-3432, PMID:22368654]
left ventricular outflow tract anomaly (diagnosis)	An abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle. [HPO:probinson]
restrictive ventricular septal defect	Any ventricular septal defect (VSD) that is small enough to restrict flow across it such that a pressure gradient exists between the two sides of the VSD. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:10798413]
ventricular septal defect between left ventricle and right atrium	The more common indirect type of communication where the flow of blood is from the left ventricle through a ventricular septal defect into the right ventricle and then through a defect in the tricuspid valve into the right atrium.
hypoplasia; heart, right heart (syndrome)	A rare congenital cardiovascular disorder characterized by severe underdevelopment of the right side of the heart. The infants develop cyanosis shortly after birth. It is a condition that requires immediate emergency treatment.
interrupted aortic arch distal to left subclavian artery	Non-continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment at the level of the isthmus. [DDD:dbrown]
absence; pericardium	No pericardium around the heart, occurring as a congenital defect, not the result of a surgical pericardectomy. [DDD:dbrown]
exstrophy of cloaca	Cloacal exstrophy is a severe anterior abdominal wall defect in which the two hemibladders are visible and are separated by a midline intestinal plate, an omphalocele, and an imperforate anus. [HPO:probinson]
aganglionosis, total intestinal	A complete lack of ganglia in the intestine. This is an extremely severe form of Hirschsprung Disease.
hypoplasia of gallbladder	The presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
diphallus (disorder)	Two penile structures, separated from the tip to the base of the shaft. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:23650202]
kidney, cake	Ren discoides - ledvina koláčová (ren fungiformis, scutulatus) ledviny jsou srostlé celou mediální plochou ve společný okrouhlý útvar (obě ledviny splynuly v jediný orgán).
radial polydactyly (disorder)	A form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the thumb or great toe. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia of lower limb	Leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; femur	An abnormal shortening of the femur. [HPO:probinson]
cutis marmorata telangiectasia congenita	A congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous-telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern; the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life. Cutis marmorata telangiectatica congenita (CMTC) appears as marble-like pattern (mottling) on the surface of the skin. In contrast to cutis marmorata, the marbling is more severe and always visible. [PMID:22483320, PMID:25864701]
fibrofolliculomas with trichodiscomas and acrochordons	Autosomal dominant neoplastic syndrome characterised by genodermatosis, lung cysts, spontaneous and recurrent PNEUMOTHORAX; and RENAL CANCER. It is associated with mutations in the folliculin protein gene (FLCN protein).
cleft lip, bilateral (diagnosis)	A non-midline cleft of the upper lip on the left and right sides. [HPO:probinson]
craniotabes (disorder)	Softening of the skull seen in newborns due to incomplete mineralization.
appelt-gerken-lenz syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the ESCO2 gene. It is characterized by limb and facial abnormalities and slow growth. Intellectual impairment occurs in approximately half of the affected individuals.
abnormalities, lymphatic	Medfödda eller förvärvade strukturella avvikelser i lymfsystemet, inklusive lymfkärlen.
anodontia nos (finding)	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
supernumerary cusp of tooth (disorder)	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
supernumerary tooth cusp	Additional cusps of a dental crown. [PMID:31468724]
premature loss of deciduous teeth	Loss of the primary (also known as deciduous) teeth before the usual age. [HPO:sdoelken]
undershot jaw	Malocclusion in which the mandible is anterior to the maxilla as reflected by the first relationship of the first permanent molar (mesioclusion).
goc	A developmental odontogenic cyst with epithelial features that simulate salivary gland or glandular differentiation. (WHO 2017)
absent vasa	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
cbavd	An autosomal recessive disorder that is associated with mutation(s) in the CFTR gene, encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. Mutation(s) in the same gene are associated with cystic fibrosis.
anogenital distance decreased	Shortened distance between anus and genital tubercle. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
ectodermal dysplasia, hypohidrotic, autosomal recessive	An autosomal recessive form of ectodermal dysplasia which is due to mutations in the gene for the EDAR RECEPTOR or EDAR-ASSOCIATED DEATH DOMAIN PROTEIN.
ectrodactyly-ectodermal dysplasia-cleft syndrome	A rare form of ectodermal dysplasia, inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, manifesting with varying degrees of severity, ectrodactyly and cleft lip/palate.
hay-wells syndrome of ectodermal dysplasia	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
growth retardation, alopecia, pseudoanodontia, optic atrophy syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
freire-maia syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome. Approximately 38 patients have been reported in literature since the first description in 1947. Patients have a short stature and a typical facies. Scalp hair may be primarily present but disappears after the first months of life leading to complete or partial alopecia. Eyebrows and/or eyelashes are sparse. Primary and permanent teeth are formed but fail to erupt. Ocular manifestations may include progressive optic atrophy, glaucoma and strabismus. Otorhinolaryngologic features include choanal atresia and deafness. Patients have a mild intellectual deficit. Some patients have also been reported with umbilical hernia, hyperextensible joints, osseous anomalies and cutaneous manifestations. Homozygous nonsense or splicing mutations in the ANTXR1 gene, encoding anthrax toxin receptor 1 cause GAPO Syndrome.
hypodontia and nail dysplasia	A rare genetic disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It is associated with mutations in the MSX-1 gene on chromosome 4 which alter ectodermal morphogenesis. Characteristic clinical signs include absent or poorly-formed dentition and brittle, spoon-shaped finger and toenails. Clinical course features an increased incidence of dental caries but is essentially benign.
kohlschutter's syndrome (disorder)	Ameliogenesis imperfecta, mental retardation, and epileptic seizures
mddga4	An autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the gene encoding fukutin (FKTN). It is associated with characteristic brain and eye malformations, seizures, and mental retardation.
dystrophy; muscular, emery-dreifuss	Heterogenní skupina dědičných svalových dystrofií bez postižení nervového systému. Onemocnění je charakterizované atrofií a slabostí svalů, svalovými kontrakturami v oblasti lokte a podél páteře, zkrácením Achillových šlach a případným kardiálním postižením. Podle typů dědičnosti se vyskytuje několik forem: forma vázaná na X chromozom, forma autozomálně dominantní a forma autozomálně recesivní.
x-linked centronuclear myopathy	An X-linked recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. Primarily it affects males. Female carriers are usually asymptomatic. It is characterized by skeletal muscle weakness and hypotonia. The muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe. Newborns with severe X-linked centronuclear myopathy develop respiratory distress which may lead to respiratory failure requiring constant ventilator assistance. Patients with mild X-linked centronuclear myopathy usually require ventilator support during the newborn period only.
lobar holoprosencephalies	A type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon, the frontal lobes, are fused, especially ventrally. [gc:hpe]
corpus callosum agenesis, partial	A partial failure of the development of the corpus callosum. [HPO:curators]
callosum corpus dysgenesis	Dysplasia and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum are nonspecific descriptions that imply defective development of the corpus callosum. The term dysplasia is applied when the morphology of the corpus callosum is altered as a congenital trait. For instance, the corpus callosum may be hump-shaped, kinked, or a striped corpus callosum that lacks an anatomically distinct genu and splenium. [HPO:probinson, PMID:21263138]
atrophy of corpus callosum (disorder)	The presence of atrophy (wasting) of the corpus callosum. [HPO:sdoelken]
lissencephaly, classical	A genetic disorder caused by mutations in the LIS1, XLIS, or TUBA1A genes. It results in brain malformation characterized by the underdevelopment or absence of gyri or ridges in the cerebral cortex. Signs and symptoms include epilepsy and mental retardation.
dysplasias, cobblestone	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
lissencephaly type ii	The smooth pebbled appearance of the CEREBRAL CORTEX with a thickened cortex and reduced and abnormal white matter, which results from migration of heterotopic neurons beyond the marginal zone into the leptomeninges through gaps in the external BASEMENT MEMBRANE. There is also enlarged ventricles, underdeveloped BRAINSTEM and cerebellum, and absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. These abnormalities occur as a syndrome without other birth defects (cobblestone complex) or in other syndromes associated with congenital MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, often involving the eye, such as the Walker-Warburg Syndrome, Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, and muscle-eye-brain disease.
cerebral cortical dysplasia	The presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral macrocephalies	Rare MALFORMATIONS OF CORTICAL DEVELOPMENT, GROUP I characterized by the enlargement of one side of the brain. It is associated with seizures, partial paralysis, and mental retardation.
cerebelloparenchymal disorder 4	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
aniridia, cerebellar ataxia, and mental deficiency	A rare congenital neurological disorder with characteristics of the association of partial bilateral aniridia with non-progressive cerebellar ataxia and intellectual disability. Aniridia is visible at birth as fixed dilated pupils. Non-progressive cerebellar ataxia is associated with delayed developmental milestones and hypotonia, gait and balance disorders with incoordination, intention tremor and scanning speech. Sporadic and familial cases have been observed.
sacral dysgenesis	A developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum, which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae S1-S5, fail to form or fail to form normally. []
synophris	Meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline. [PMID:19125427]
vertical orbital dystopia	The orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane, that is, one eye is lower than the other. [HPO:probinson, PMID:7795293]
overgrowth of upper limb	Overgrowth of only one arm. [HPO:probinson]
abducted thumb	With the hand relaxed and the thumb in the plane of the palm, the axis of the thumb forms an angle of at least 90 degrees with the long axis of the hand. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
hypoplastic/small thumb	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
thumb hypoplastic	A congenital abnormality characterized by hypoplasia or absence of the thumb. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
postaxial polydactyly of fingers	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand (that is, on the side with the fifth finger). [HPO:sdoelken]
anomaly; limb, lower	Medfödda, strukturella avvikelser i den nedre extremiteten.
split-foot	A condition in which middle parts of the foot (toes and metatarsals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic 3rd toe over absent 2nd or 3rd toes as far as oligo- or monodactyl feet. [HPO:sdoelken]
syndactyly, 2-3 finger	Syndactyly with fusion of fingers two and three. [HPO:sdoelken]
decreased skull ossification	A reduction in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull. [HPO:probinson]
sagittal synostosis	A kind of craniosynostosis affecting the sagittal suture. [HPO:probinson]
spondylolysis, lumbosacral region	A defect in the pars interarticularis of the vertebral arch of a lumbar or sacral vertebra that is present at the time of birth.
vertebral segmentation defects	An abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development. [HPO:probinson, PMID:23653580, PMID:23801490]
absent muscles since birth	Congenital lack of development of the muscles, which are then replaced by a mixture of dense fat and fibrous tissue. [HPO:probinson, Neuromics:vstraub]
trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type i	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
trichorhinophalangeal (trp) syndrome 1	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
ichthyosis bullosa of siemens (disorder)	An autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis characterized by generalized reddening of the skin (ERYTHEMA) and widespread blistering. The disease shows similar, but somewhat milder, clinical and histopathological findings to those in HYPERKERATOSIS, EPIDERMOLYTIC and is associated with the gene that encodes KERATIN-2A.
retinoic acid embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
isotretinoin-like syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
fetal thalidomide syndrome	Fetal embryopathy associated with maternal thalidomide use during pregnancy characterized by phocomelia of one or all limbs, other limb defects such as thumb abnormalities, and other structural anomalies that may include facial hemangioma, esophageal and duodenal atresia, tetralogy of Fallot, renal agenesis, and anomalies of the external ear. Long term complications may include Moebius syndrome or autism.
fetal aminopterin syndrome (disorder)	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to methotrexate during pregnancy. Manifestations of the syndrome include craniofacial, digital, and skeletal malformations.
book syndrome	Book syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome reported in a Swedish family (25 cases from 4 generations), and one isolated case. The syndrome has characteristics of premolar aplasia, hyperhidrosis, and premature graying of the hair. Additional features reported in the isolated case include a narrow palate, hypoplastic nails, eyebrow anomalies, a unilateral simian crease, and poorly formed dermatoglyphics.
howel-evans' syndrome (diagnosis)	Forma de queratodermia palmoplantar difusa que se produce entre los 5 y los 15 años de edad y que podría asociarse con el desarrollo ulterior de cáncer de esófago
liver arteriovenous malformation	A benign vascular lesion characterized by the presence of a complex network of communicating arterial and venous vascular structures in the liver.
mul	Vrozená porucha růstu, která je způsobena mutací genu (TRIM37) na chromozomu 17q22-Q23, který kóduje RING-B-box-coiled-coil protein.
bifid nail (disorder)	A digit with two nails, with at least some soft tissue between them. [PMID:19125433]
fiber-type disproportion myopathy, congenital	A rare genetic disorder caused by mutations in the TPM3, ACTA1, RYR1 and SEPN1 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and rarely in an X-linked pattern. It manifests with myopathy throughout the body, particularly in the muscles of the shoulders, upper arms, hips, and thighs. Affected individuals may have contractures, lordosis, or scoliosis. In a minority of cases mild to severe breathing problems may occur.
hairs, nodose	Rare autosomal dominant disorder of the hair shaft. The clinical features of the disease include HYPOTRICHOSIS, dry, and/or brittle hair, with varying degrees of ALOPECIA. Mutations in the hair-specific keratin genes KRTHB1, KRTHB3, or KRTHB6 are associated with monilethrix. Autosomal recessive monilethrix with limited HYPOTRICHOSIS are also known. Mutations in Dsg4, Liph, and P2ry5 protein genes are associated with the recessive form of monilethrix.
posterior embryotoxon	A posterior embryotoxon is the presence of a prominent and anteriorly displaced line of Schwalbe. [HPO:probinson]
sacralized fifth lumbar vertebra (disorder)	A congenital anomaly, in which the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra (L5) fuses to the sacrum on one side or both, or to ilium, or both. [UToronto:bgallinger]
duodenal diaphragm	Partial or complete obstruction of the duodenal lumen due to the presence of a membranous web.
incomplete ossification of palatine bone (disorder)	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the palatine bone. [GOC:MG]
congenital streblodactyly	The distal interphalangeal joint and/or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of the ischium	An anomaly of the ischium, which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone. [HPO:probinson]
incomplete ossification of pubis (finding)	Failure to complete ossification (maturation and calcification) of the pubic bone. []
defective lung lobation	A developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes. [HPO:probinson]
microblepharia (disorder)	Abnormal shortness of the vertical dimensions of the eyelids. [http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/microblepharia]
acephalostomia (disorder)	Absence of the head but with the presence of mouth-like orifice in the neck region. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (disorder)	An abnormality characterized by thickening of the muscle in the wall of the pylorus. It results in the narrowing of the pyloric channel. The overlying mucosa may appear hypertrophic as well. Clinical signs and symptoms appear early in life and include projectile vomiting and dehydration.
leisti-hollander-rimoin syndrome	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the SRCAP gene, encoding helicase SRCAP. It is characterized by proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, delayed speech development, and typical facial features.
congenital abnormality of upper limb and shoulder girdle	Arvelige strukturelle misdannelser av armene.
semilobar holoprosencephalies	A type of holoprosencephaly in which the left and right frontal and parietal lobes are fused and the interhemispheric fissure is only present posteriorly. [gc:hpe]
central core disease of muscle	Dědičný vrozený myopatický stav projevující se slabostí a hypotonií u kojenců a opožděný motorický vývoj. Svalová biopsie ukazuje kondenzaci myofibril a myofibrilárního materiálu ve střední části každého svalového vlákna.
vascular anomalies cns	Medfödda eller förvärvade missbildningar av artärer, vener eller blodsinus i hjärnan, ryggmärgen och deras hinnor.
9q subtelomeric deletion syndrome	A condition caused by mutation or deletion of the EHMT1 gene, encoding histone-lysine N-methyltransferase EHMT1. It is characterized by severe intellectual disability, hypotonia, cardiac defects, and characteristic facial features.
duplication 17p	A rare chromosomal abnormality resulting from the duplication of the short arm of chromosome 17 with characteristics of pre and post-natal growth retardation, developmental delay, hypotonia, digital abnormalities, congenital heart defects, and distinctive facial features. It has been described in fewer than 15 patients. Facial dysmorphism includes microcephaly, receding forehead, down-slanting palpebral fissures, ptosis, hypertelorism, low-set malformed ears, smooth philtrum, micrognathia, high-arched palate and a short broad neck. Digital abnormalities include absent fourth and fifth digits, brachydactyly and fifth finger clinodactyly. Genital hypoplasia in males and hypertrichosis are often observed. Intellectual deficit is severe to profound and the prognosis is poor. Trisomy 17p has been reported to be pure, as the result of a de novo 17p duplication or an extra chromosome derived from the 17p arm.
eronen syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies, intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of sensorineural hearing loss, onychodystrophy, osteodystrophy, mild to profound intellectual disability and seizures. About 50 cases have been reported to date. Caused by mutations in the TBC1D24 gene (16p13.3) encoding a protein involved in the regulation of membrane trafficking. Inherited autosomal recessively.
pseudoaminopterin syndrome	A developmental anomaly syndrome that resembles aminopterin embryopathy without history of exposure in utero to aminopterin. Main features include craniosynostosis, dysmorphic features including ocular hypertelorism, palpebral fissure anomalies, micrognathia cleft lip and/or high arched palate and small and low set/rotated ears.Limb anomalies include brachydactyly, syndactyly and clinodactyly. Also associated with mild-to-moderate intellectual deficit and short stature.
deafness with skeletal dysplasia and lip granuloma syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare multi-systemic genetic disorder with characteristics of intellectual disability, deafness, skeletal abnormalities and coarse facial features.The syndrome is exceedingly rare and has been reported in only a few patients to date. Male and female patients have been described. The main clinical features include moderate to severe intellectual deficit, congenital sensorineural hearing impairment and broad, stubby hands and feet. A coarse face with full lips and cheeks is also found. These signs are reported to become more prominent with age. The pattern of inheritance appears to be autosomal recessive.
microcephaly, hiatal hernia and nephrotic syndrome	The association of nephrotic syndrome with central nervous system anomalies. Approximately 40 cases have been reported since it was first described in 1968 in two siblings with early-onset nephrotic syndrome, microcephaly and hiatus hernia. Renal biopsy may show minimal glomerular lesions, mesangial proliferation, focal segmental hyalinosis or diffuse mesangial sclerosis. Neurological symptoms include microcephaly, psychomotor retardation, convulsions, hypotonia, abnormal cerebral gyri and sulci, cortical atrophy, hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis, porencephaly or encephalomalacia. Histological analyses reveal anomalies of neuron migration. Facial dysmorphology and large ears have been reported as well as hiatus hernia, which is responsible for vomiting after the first feed. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by homozygous mutation in the WDR73 gene (616144) on chromosome 15q25.
gomez lopez hernandez syndrome	Syndrome that may be classified among the neurocutaneous syndromes, associates abnormalities of the cerebellum (rhombencephalosynapsis), cranial nerves (trigeminal anesthesia), and scalp (alopecia). It has been reported in 11 individuals so far. Other features observed in patients were craniosynostosis, midfacial hypoplasia, bilateral corneal opacities, low-set ears, short stature, moderate intellectual impairment and ataxia. Hyperactivity, depression, self-injurious behavior and bipolar disorder have also been reported.
hall riggs syndrome	A very rare syndrome consisting of microcephaly with facial dysmorphism, spondylometaphyseal dysplasia and severe intellectual deficit. Eight cases have been reported in the literature in two unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include hypertelorism, depressed nasal bridge, and large nose with a large nasal tip, anteverted nostrils and wide mouth with thick lips. Affected patients do not achieve language ability. The condition is probably hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
craniofacial digital and genital anomalies syndrome (disorder)	The association of intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism (a highly arched palate, pointed chin, and small mouth, hypotelorism, a long nose and large protruding ears), arachnodactyly, hypogenitalism (undescended testes and hypospadias) and failure to thrive. So far, it has been described in three males (including two brothers). An autosomal recessive mode of transmission has been suggested.
harrod syndrome	The association of intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism (a highly arched palate, pointed chin, and small mouth, hypotelorism, a long nose and large protruding ears), arachnodactyly, hypogenitalism (undescended testes and hypospadias) and failure to thrive. So far, it has been described in three males (including two brothers). An autosomal recessive mode of transmission has been suggested.
craniofacial digital and genital anomalies syndrome	The association of intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism (a highly arched palate, pointed chin, and small mouth, hypotelorism, a long nose and large protruding ears), arachnodactyly, hypogenitalism (undescended testes and hypospadias) and failure to thrive. So far, it has been described in three males (including two brothers). An autosomal recessive mode of transmission has been suggested.
johnson-mcmillin syndrome	Johnson neuroectodermal syndrome has characteristics of alopecia, anosmia or hyposmia, conductive deafness with malformed ears and microtia and/or atresia of the external auditory canal and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. So far, less than 30 cases have been described in the literature. Other variable features include a congenital heart defect, facial asymmetry, intellectual deficit, cleft palate, choanal stenosis and an increased tendency for dental caries. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. The combination of developmental anomalies present in patients with this syndrome is suggestive of an embryological defect in the formation of the neuroectodermal derivatives of cephalic neural crest.
juberg marsidi syndrome	An X-linked mental retardation syndrome belonging to the group of conditions with the association of intellectual deficit and hypotonic facies. Prevalence is unknown but since its initial description in 1980 several unrelated families with affected males have been reported. The syndrome has characteristics of facial dysmorphism (a flat and broad nasal bridge, prominent forehead, up-slanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism and various ear anomalies), growth failure, sensorineural deafness, microgenitalism and severe intellectual deficit. Inheritance is X-linked recessive and the syndrome is caused by mutations in the ATRX gene (Xq13.3).
kabuki make-up syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene (also known as MLL2) or the KDM6A gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial features including arched eyebrows, long eyelashes, long palpebral fissures with the lower lids turned out at the outside edges, a flat nose, and large protruding earlobes, developmental delay and intellectual disability.
long columella with cleft lip/palate and eye, heart, and intestinal anomalies	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism, severe intellectual deficiency, cardiac and intestinal anomalies, and growth retardation. Only four cases have been reported in the literature, in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include bilateral cleft lip and palate, bulbous nasal tip and eye anomalies. The condition seems to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
long columella with cleft lip-palate and eye, heart, and intestinal anomalies	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism, severe intellectual deficiency, cardiac and intestinal anomalies, and growth retardation. Only four cases have been reported in the literature, in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include bilateral cleft lip and palate, bulbous nasal tip and eye anomalies. The condition seems to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
peters plus syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
lowry maclean syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of microcephaly, craniosynostosis, glaucoma, growth failure and visceral malformations. Only three cases have been reported in the literature in three unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include trigonocephaly, exotropia, cleft palate, beaked nose and low-set ears. All the affected patients have associated congenital visceral malformations including congenital heart defects, diaphragmatic hernia, genital or cerebral abnormalities. The demonstration of congenital glaucoma, hallmark of the syndrome, in the father of an affected patient, supports autosomal dominant inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
prominent glabella with microcephaly and hypogenitalism syndrome	A very rare syndrome described in two siblings with manifestation of prenatal onset of growth deficiency, microcephaly, hypoplastic genitalia, and birth onset of convulsions.
mcdonough syndrome	Belongs to the group of multiple congenital anomalies/mental retardation syndromes with intellectual deficit, distinctive facies (upward slanting palpebral fissures, squint), kyphoscoliosis, diastasis recti, cryptorchidism, and a congenital heart defect. Autosomal recessive inheritance suggested.
kawashima tsuji syndrome	This syndrome has manifestations of microcephaly, deafness, intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism (facial asymmetry, prominent glabella, low-set and cup-shaped ears, protruding lower lip, micrognathia). It has been described in a mother and her son. The mode of inheritance is probably autosomal dominant.
microcephaly with mental retardation and digital anomalies	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of congenital microcephaly with facial dysmorphism (sloping forehead, prominent nose, mild retrognathia), moderate to severe, non-progressive intellectual disability and symmetrical digital malformations of variable degree, including brachydactyly of the fifth fingers with single flexion crease, clinodactyly, syndactyly, polydactyly and hallux valgus. Congenital anonychia and white cafe au lait-like spots on the skin of hands and feet are also associated. There is evidence this disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the RBBP8 gene on chromosome 18q11.2.
linear skin defects with multiple congenital anomalies 1	Syndrome with characteristics of ocular defects (microphthalmia, orbital cysts, corneal opacities) and linear skin dysplasia of the neck, head, and chin. It has been reported in less than 50 patients. Additional findings may include agenesis of corpus callosum, sclerocornea, chorioretinal abnormalities, hydrocephalus, seizures, intellectual deficit, and nail dystrophy. It is transmitted as an X-linked dominant trait with male lethality.
growth mental deficiency syndrome of myhre	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the SMAD4 gene. It is characterized by developmental abnormalities, mild to moderate intellectual disability, hearing loss, skin stiffness, skeletal abnormalities, and typical facial features (short palpebral fissures, shortened distance between the nose and upper lip, midface hypoplasia, prognathism, cleft palate, and/or cleft lip).
freire-maia pinheiro opitz syndrome	A multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of neurological abnormalities (including megalencephaly, hypotonia, intellectual disability, abnormal EEG), dysmorphic facial features (high prominent forehead, grooved nasal tip, ptosis, ear anomalies) and acrorenal defects (such as triphalangism, broad halluces, unilateral renal agenesis). Additionally, intrauterine growth restriction, short stature and congenital heart defects may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
lissencephaly syndrome norman roberts type (disorder)	Lissencephaly syndrome, Norman-Roberts type is the association of lissencephaly type I with craniofacial anomalies (severe microcephaly, a low sloping forehead, a broad and prominent nasal bridge and widely set eyes) and postnatal growth retardation. Severe intellectual deficit, spasticity and epilepsy are also present. Mutations in the RELN gene (7q22) have been identified in some patients. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
juberg hayward syndrome	A polymalformation syndrome that associates multiple skeletal anomalies with microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, urogenital anomalies and intellectual deficit.
oral-facial-digital syndrome, type ix	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome 9	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 9	Syndrome with characteristics of highly arched palate with bifid tongue and bilateral supernumerary lower canines, hamartomatous tongue, multiple frenula, hypertelorism, telecanthus, strabismus, broad and/or bifid nasal tip, short stature, bifid hallux, forked metatarsal, poly and syndactyly, mild intellectual deficit and specific retinal abnormalities (bilateral optic disc coloboma and retinal dysplasia with partial detachment). Less than ten cases have been described in the literature. The causative gene has not yet been identified.
pallister w syndrome	W syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, epileptic seizures and facial dysmorphism. Skeletal anomalies are also often present. To date, it has been described in six male patients. The mode of transmission appears to be X-linked dominant.
primrose syndrome	A rare genetic intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of macrocephaly, hypotonia, dysmorphic facial features (wide forehead, ptosis, downslanting palpebral fissures, enlarged and calcified external ears, large jaw), sparse body hair and tall stature. Hearing loss, insulin-resistant diabetes, and progressive distal muscle wasting (leading to joint contractures) have also been reported in adulthood. Rare manifestations include hypothyroidism, cerebral calcification, ataxia and peripheral neuropathy. There is evidence this disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the ZBTB20 gene on chromosome 3q13.
proud syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of agenesis of the corpus callosum, mild to severe neurological manifestations (intellectual disability, developmental delay, epilepsy, dystonia), and urogenital anomalies (hypospadias, cryptorchidism, renal dysplasia, ambiguous genitalia). Additionally skeletal anomalies (limb contractures, scoliosis), dysmorphic facial features (large eyes, prominent supraorbital ridges, synophrys) and optic atrophy have been observed. The disease is caused by mutation in the ARX gene.
craniocerebellocardiac dysplasia	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
3c syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial (prominent occiput and forehead, hypertelorism, ocular coloboma, cleft palate), cerebellar (Dandy-Walker malformation, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia) and cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, atrial and ventricular septal defects) anomalies. To date less than 50 cases have been described. The exact cause is still unknown but mutations in KIAA0196 (8q24.13; coding for strumpellin) have been identified. Sporadic and familial cases have been reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Phenotypic variability exists between siblings.
acrocallosal syndrome (disorder)	Autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by hypogenesis or agenesis of CORPUS CALLOSUM. Clinical features include MENTAL RETARDATION; CRANIOFACIAL ABNORMALITIES; digital malformations, and growth retardation.
x-linked intellectual disability hypotonic face syndrome (disorder)	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X caracterizado por dismorfismo facial (fisuras palpebrales inclinadas, cara estrecha, micrognatia, labio inferior distendido, filtrum plano o pequeño y exotropía y ptosis alternantes), baja estatura, hipotonía temprana y posteriormente hipertonía, incisivos centrales superiores prominentes, deformidades de los pies (pie plano, metatarso varo, equinovaro), retraso psicomotor y problemas de conducta. Se desconoce la prevalencia. Desde la descripción inicial en 1980 el trastorno se describió en varones de 11 familias y en un caso aislado. En la mayoría de los casos el síndrome se produce por mutaciones en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3); sin embargo, el gen causal en una gran familia china se localizó en un intervalo de 19,8 Mb sobre Xq25. La transmisión es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
congenital heart defect with round face and developmental delay syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome described in three siblings of one Japanese family with main features of congenital heart disease, round face with depressed nasal bridge, small mouth, short stature, and relatively dark skin and typical dermatoglyphic anomalies, and intellectual deficit.
spondyloperipheral dysplasia with short ulna	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the COL2A1 gene, encoding collagen alpha-1(II) chain. It is characterized by short stature, pugilistic facies, midface hypoplasia, spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, kyphosis, short ulna, and absent styloid process. Mutation(s) in the same gene are responsible for Kniest dysplasia.
teebi syndrome	A rare genetic disease with characteristics of hypertelorism with facial features that can closely resemble craniofrontonasal dysplasia, such as prominent forehead, widow's peak, heavy and broad eyebrows, long palpebral fissures, ptosis, high and broad nasal bridge, short nose, low-set ears, natal teeth, thin upper lip and a grooved chin. Limb features include fifth-finger clinodactyly, pes adductus, mild interdigital webbing. Urogenital features include bilateral cryptorchidism and shawl scrotum in males. Other manifestations include umbilical hernia/omphalocele and cardiac defects. Psychomotor development is normal.
toriello carey syndrome	A multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial dysmorphic features, cerebral anomalies, swallowing difficulties, cardiac defects and hypotonia. Main clinical signs include telecanthus, short palpebral fissures, small nose with anteverted nares, Pierre Robin sequence, abnormally shaped ears, redundant neck skin and features of midline structural abnormalities with agenesis of corpus callosum, laryngeal anomalies and congenital heart defects. Short hands and hypotonia may also be observed. Patients have a moderate to severe intellectual disability. There is evidence that this is a heterogeneous condition, with chromosome anomalies identified in approximately 20%, and at least two candidate genes identified: MN1 (22q12.1) which has been reported in a microdeletion and SATB2 (2q33.1), interrupted by a de novo balanced translocation in another patient.
prader willi habitus with osteopenia and camptodactyly	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, short stature, obesity, genital abnormalities, and hand and/or toe contractures. It has been described in two brothers and in one isolated case. This syndrome is similar to Prader-Willi syndrome, but the hand contractures and osteoporosis, together with the lack of hypotonia, indicate this is a different entity.
van den bosch syndrome	Syndrome that is characterized by intellectual deficit, choroideremia, acrokeratosis verruciformis, anhidrosis, and skeletal deformities. It has been observed in a single kindred. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked recessive trait and may be caused by a small X-chromosome deletion.
weaver williams syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of moderate-to-severe intellectual disability, decreased muscle mass, microcephaly, facial dysmorphism (prominent ears, midfacial hypoplasia, small mouth and cleft palate), clinodactyly of the fingers, delayed osseous maturation and general bone hypoplasia. The syndrome has been described in a brother and sister and an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1977.
wieacker syndrome	A severe X-linked recessive neurodevelopmental disorder with the association of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita and intellectual disability. The syndrome has been reported in 5 families to date, with fewer than 30 affected individuals described. Affected patients are male, while carrier females are often asymptomatic. Facial weakness (ptosis) and bulbar weakness (feeding difficulty), characteristic dysmorphic facial and skeletal abnormalities have been reported. Other neurological signs may include spasticity and seizures. Heterozygous female carriers may also be affected, but to a lesser degree (intellectual disability, distal muscle weakness, camptodactyly, joint contractures, and pes equinovarus). Caused by mutations in the ZC4H2 gene (Xq11.1) that is presumed to play a role in neuronal function during fetal growth.
worster drought syndrome	A form of cerebral palsy with characteristics of congenital pseudobulbar (suprabulbar) paresis manifesting as selective weakness of the lips, tongue and soft palate, dysphagia, dysphonia, drooling and jaw jerking. Mean age at diagnosis is 6 years. The main clinical features are spasticity and limited movements around the mouth and throat from an early age, and brisk jaw jerks. Most cases are sporadic but several families with more than one affected member have been reported. Inheritance in these families appeared to follow an autosomal dominant pattern with variable expression and penetrance.
bops	Syndrome with characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, failure to thrive, facial dysmorphism, flexion deformities of the elbows and wrists, camptodactyly, ulnar deviation of the fingers, foot anomalies and severe developmental delay. Less than 20 patients have been described so far. Although the large majority of reported cases occurred sporadically, autosomal recessive inheritance has also been reported.
wilson turner syndrome (disorder)	A very rare X-linked multisystem genetic disease characterised by intellectual disability, truncal obesity, gynaecomastia, hypogonadism, dysmorphic facial features, and short stature. The syndrome has been described in two families to date. The syndrome has been linked to a mutation in the consensus donor splice site of the histone deacetylase 8 HDAC8 gene (Xq13). X-linked recessive transmission and X-linked dominant inheritance with absence of male-to-male transmission have been reported.
young hughes syndrome	A rare X-linked intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of intellectual disability associated with short stature, obesity, primary hypogonadism and an ichthyosiform skin condition. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1982.
acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of a progressively coarse acromegaloid-like facial appearance, thickening of the lips and intraoral mucosa, large and doughy hands and, in some cases, developmental delay. The syndrome appears to be part of a phenotypic spectrum that includes hypertrichotic osteochondrodysplasia, Cantu type and hypertrichosis-acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome.
elsahy-waters syndrome	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome, described in three boys from one family. The syndrome has characteristics of intellectual disability, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism, bifid uvula or partial cleft palate, multiple dental cysts, Schmorl nodes, fused cervical spinous processes, pectus excavatum, and penoscrotal hypospadias. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1971.
hypospadias (disorder)	A birth defect due to malformation of the URETHRA in which the urethral opening is below its normal location. In the male, the malformed urethra generally opens on the ventral surface of the PENIS or on the PERINEUM. In the female, the malformed urethral opening is in the VAGINA.
de syndrome	A disorder likely to occur in children and grandchildren of a woman treated with diethylstilbestrol during pregnancy. Manifestations include vaginal adenosis, cervical malformations, vaginal septae, genital tract anomalies or Fallopian tube anomalies causing subsequent fertility problems.
muscular dystrophy, becker type	An X-linked inherited disorder characterized by slowly progressing weakness in the muscles of the legs and pelvis.
porokeratosis of mibelli	A clonal disorder of keratinization with one or multiple atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella. [HPO:skoehler]
zinsser-cole-engman syndrome	Dyskeratosis congenita inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. It is caused by mutations in the DKC1 gene.
muscular dystrophy, congenital merosin-deficient	An autosomal recessive inherited congenital muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the LAMA2 gene. It is characterized by severe hypotonia, muscle weakness, elevated levels of serum creatinine kinase, and white matter abnormalities.
cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome most often caused by BRAF gene mutations. It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance (high forehead, short nose, and widely spaced eyes), sparse and brittle hair, skin disorders, heart malformations, mental retardation and developmental delay.
pena-shokeir syndrome, type i	Decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures, facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia. Ultrasound examination may reveal polyhydramnios, ankylosis, scalp edema, and decreased chest movements (reflecting pulmonary hypoplasia). [HPO:probinson]
incomplete ossification of bone (morphologic abnormality)	A finding of partial or decreased ossification, as indicated by reduced stain uptake.
anomalous number of teeth (disorder)	The presence of an altered number of of teeth. [HPO:ibailleulforestier]
agenesis of secondary dentition	A congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth, including oligodontia, hypodontia, and adontia of the of permanent teeth. [HPO:probinson]
cleft lip and alveolus (disorder)	<p>Cleft lip & alveolus</p>
general fibrosis syndrome	Congenital non-progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions. Typically, there is ptosis and variable degrees of restriction of horizontal and vertical eye movements. [HPO:probinson]
miosis, congenital	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
mcor	Abnormal (non-physiological) constriction of the pupil of congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
placenta abnormalities	An abnormality of the placenta, the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange. [HPO:probinson]
shprintzen-goldberg syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited syndrome often caused by mutations in the SKI gene. It is characterized by premature fusion of skull bones and distinctive facial features, including a long, narrow head, hypertelorism, exophthalmos, downslanting palpebral fissures, a high, narrow palate, micrognathia, and low-set ears. The bodies of affected individuals resemble those of people with Marfan syndrome.
radial-ulnar hypoplasia with bone marrow failure and-or leukemia	Syndrome is characterised by haematological anomalies (Fanconi anaemia, leukaemia and lymphoma) often appearing during childhood. Anomalies of the limbs and hands are also present: bifid or hypoplastic thumbs, cutaneous syndactyly and ulnar and radial defects. The syndrome has been described in several families. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
laryngo onycho cutaneous syndrome	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
loc syndrome	LOC syndrome is a subtype of junctional epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of an altered cry in the neonatal period and aberrant production of granulation tissue in particular affecting the upper airway tract, conjunctiva and periungual/subungual sites. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported to date, mostly in consanguineous families from the Punjabi region of Pakistan and India. The condition is present at birth. The condition is associated with mutations in the alpha-3 chain of laminin-332 (LAMA3). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Prognosis is poor.
del castillo syndrome	A type of male infertility in which no germ cells are visible in any of the biopsied SEMINIFEROUS TUBULES (type I) or in which germ cells are present in a minority of tubules (type II). Clinical features include AZOOSPERMIA, normal VIRILIZATION, and normal chromosomal complement.
thumb; accessory	Supernumerary digits located at the radial side of the hand. Polydactyly (supernumerary digits) involving the thumb occurs in many distinct forms of high variability and severity. Ranging from fleshy nubbins over varying degrees of partial duplication/splitting to completely duplicated or even triplicated thumbs or preaxial (on the radial side of the hand) supernumerary digits. [HPO:probinson]
right and left cleft lip and palate	Cleft lip and cleft palate affecting both sides of the face. [HPO:probinson]
incisors, shovel-shaped	Incisor that has marked lateral borders occurring lingually.
orofaciodigital syndrome is	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
orofaciodigital syndrome i	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
ofd syndrome type i	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
papillon léage psaume syndrome	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
vein of galen malformations	Congenital arteriovenous malformation involving the VEIN OF GALEN, a large deep vein at the base of the brain. The rush of arterial blood directly into the vein of Galen, without passing through the CAPILLARIES, can overwhelm the heart and lead to CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
periodic paralysis, potassium-sensitive cardiodysrhythmic type	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
long qt syndrome 7	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
andersen syndrome	En typ av nedärvt, långt QT-syndrom (eller LQT7) som kännetecknas av en triad av potassiumkänslig periodisk förlamning, hjärtkammarprematurslag och onormala särdrag såsom kortvuxenhet, lågt sittande öron och skolios. Tillståndet orsakas av mutationer av KCNJ2-genen som kodar för ett kanalprotein (IRK1-kanal), vilket reglerar vilomembranpotentialen.
usher syndrome, type i	A syndrome characterized by congenital, bilateral, severe sensorineural hearing loss, abnormalities in the vestibular system, and adolescent-onset retinitis pigmentosa.
acrorenoocular syndromes	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
hypospadias; penile	Location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis. [HPO:curators]
vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-oesophageal fistula, renal anomalies, limb defects syndrome	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
cdls2	An X-linked inherited form of Cornelia De Lange syndrome caused by mutations in the SMC1A gene mapped to chromosome Xp11.22. Patients have a milder form of the syndrome compared to patients with the NIPBL gene mutation.
athabascan brainstem dysgenesis syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of deafness, central hypoventilation, congenital ocular paralysis and developmental retardation. Cardiac anomalies and paralysis of the vocal chords may also be present. Six cases have been reported so far. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
van maldergem wetzburger verloes syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with mild to severe intellectual disability, a distinctive facial gestalt (blepharophimosis, maxillary hypoplasia, telecanthus, microtia and atresia of the external auditory meatus) as well as skeletal and articular abnormalities (e.g. camptodactyly of the fingers, cutaneous syndactyly, talipes equinovarus, flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints, hip or elbow subluxation, joint laxity). May also present with neonatal hypotonia, variable respiratory manifestations, chronic feeding difficulties and gray matter heterotopia.
crisponi syndrome	A severe disorder with characteristics of muscular contractions at birth, intermittent hyperthermia, facial abnormalities and camptodactyly. Since the first description of the disease in 1996, it has been described in less than 30 patients from 13 Italian (mainly Sardinian) families. Extensive paroxysmal muscular contractions in the face (resembling neonatal tetanus) develop after minimal stimuli. All patients described to date displayed facial anomalies, including a large face, chubby cheeks, a broad nose with anteverted nostrils and long philtrum and bilateral camptodactyly. Early in the neonatal period continuous hyperthermia develops (unrelated to infectious agents). Mutations in the CRLF1 gene are causative. Belongs to a group of conditions with overlapping features, including cold-induced sweating syndromes and Stüve-Wiedemann syndrome. The disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
short stature brussels type	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature presenting in the neonatal period, associated with osteochondrodysplastic lesions and facial dysmorphism. It has been described in two members from the same family.
ectodermal dysplasia, hair/tooth type	A rare disorder with manifestation of hypo or oligodontia and acanthosis nigricans. It has been described in four generations of one family. Onset generally occurs during adolescence. Some patients are born with multiple teeth. Hair anomalies (sparse body and scalp hair) also reported. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
dental anomalies and short stature	An exceedingly rare form of brachyolmia with characteristics of mild platyspondyly, broad ilia, elongated femoral necks with coxa valga, scoliosis, and short trunked short stature associated with amelogenesis imperfecta of both primary and permanent dentition.
mal de naxos	A recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy and a cutaneous phenotype with manifestation of peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma. The disease was first described in families originating from the Greek island of Naxos. Woolly hair appears from birth, palmoplantar keratoderma develops during the first year of life and cardiomyopathy is clinically manifested by adolescence with 100% penetrance. Symptoms of right heart failure appear during the end stages of the disease.
palmoplantar hyperkeratosis with arrythmogenic cardiomyopathy	A recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy and a cutaneous phenotype with manifestation of peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma. The disease was first described in families originating from the Greek island of Naxos. Woolly hair appears from birth, palmoplantar keratoderma develops during the first year of life and cardiomyopathy is clinically manifested by adolescence with 100% penetrance. Symptoms of right heart failure appear during the end stages of the disease.
anophthalmia, clinical, with mild facial dysmorphism and variable malformations of the lung, heart, and diaphragm	A rare clinical entity including as main characteristics anophthalmia or severe microphthalmia, and pulmonary hypoplasia or aplasia. Only five cases have been reported so far, two of who were siblings. In the three nonfamilial cases, unilateral pulmonary agenesis and microphthalmia were associated with diaphragmatic hernia and pulmonary vessel agenesis. It has been suggested that two different entities can be distinguished: on one hand, the association of anophthalmia-pulmonary hypoplasia with/without anomalies of the face, heart, spleen and uterus, which may be due to a putative autosomal recessive gene with pleiotropic effects; on the other hand, a sporadic association including pulmonary hypoplasia, anophthalmia, unilateral diaphragmatic defect and agenesis of the pulmonary trunk, which may represent the expression of a developmental field defect. There is evidence that syndromic microphthalmia- is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the STRA6 gene on chromosome 15q24.
fallot complex with intellectual disability and growth delay syndrome	A rare disorder characterized by tetralogy of Fallot, minor facial anomalies, and severe intellectual deficiency and growth delay. Dysmorphic features include large, protruding, abnormally modeled ears and broad nasal root. Microcephaly and syndactyly of second and third toes have also been recorded. All patients have severe intellectual deficiency. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
van den ende-gupta syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, arachnodactyly, joint contractures and dysmorphic features. Ten cases from seven families have been reported in the literature. The dysmorphic features include narrow nose with hypoplastic alae nasi, hypoplastic maxilla, everted lower lip, blepharophimosis, large ears and high-arched or cleft palate. The affected patients can have learning disabilities. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
van den ende-gupta syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of blepharophimosis, arachnodactyly, joint contractures and dysmorphic features. Ten cases from seven families have been reported in the literature. The dysmorphic features include narrow nose with hypoplastic alae nasi, hypoplastic maxilla, everted lower lip, blepharophimosis, large ears and high-arched or cleft palate. The affected patients can have learning disabilities. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
velo-facial-skeletal syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with short stature, facial dysmorphism (elongated face, hypertelorism, broad and high nasal bridge, mild epicanthus, posteriorly angulated ears, narrow and high-arched palate), skeletal anomalies (mesomelic brachymelia, short broad hands, prominent finger pads, short stubby thumbs, hyperextensibility of small joints, small feet), hypernasality and normal intelligence. Delayed bone age has also been reported.
otofaciocervical syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of distinct facial features (long triangular face, broad forehead, narrow nose and mandible, high arched palate), prominent, dysmorphic ears (low-set and cup-shaped with large conchae and hypoplastic tragus, antitragus and lobe), long neck, preauricular and/or branchial fistulas and/or cysts, hypoplastic cervical muscles with sloping shoulders and clavicles, winged, low, and laterally-set scapulae, hearing impairment and mild intellectual deficit. Vertebral defects and short stature may also be associated.
oslam syndrome	Syndrome characterised by the association of osteosarcoma, limb anomalies (clinodactyly with brachymesophalangia, bilateral radioulnar synostosis and absence of one digital ray of the foot) and red cell macrocytosis without anaemia. It has been described in three out of nine children from one family.
omm syndrome	Complete blindness due to corneal opacities, difficult mastication due to temporomandibular fusion and anomalies of the arms. Micrognathia, shortening and bowing of the forearm, ulnar deviation and bowed radius, short fibula, genu valgum and coxa vara have been reported. Intelligence is normal. The causative gene has not yet been identified. Autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested.
omm (ophthalmomandibulomelic) syndrome	Complete blindness due to corneal opacities, difficult mastication due to temporomandibular fusion and anomalies of the arms. Micrognathia, shortening and bowing of the forearm, ulnar deviation and bowed radius, short fibula, genu valgum and coxa vara have been reported. Intelligence is normal. The causative gene has not yet been identified. Autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested.
boder syndrome	Odontoma-dysphagia syndrome is a malformation syndrome, with characteristics of odontomas and severe dysphagia. Less than ten cases have been reported so far. Three of the reported patients manifested multiple odontomas. Occasionally, cardiac, renal and hepatic involvement has been described. In several cases, autosomal dominant inheritance has been suspected. Currently, there are no genes associated with this condition.
oculopharyngodistal myopathy	A rare genetic neuromuscular disease with characteristics of progressive external ocular, facial and pharyngeal muscle weakness, leading to variable degrees of ptosis, ophthalmoparesis, facial muscle atrophy, dysarthria and dysphagia, as well as distal muscle weakness and atrophy of lower and upper extremities. Respiratory muscle involvement is common, but sensorineural hearing loss, asymmetrical extremity weakness and severe proximal weakness are rare.
schilbach rott syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal dominant dysmorphic disorder with characteristics hypotelorism, blepharophimosis, facial asymmetry, small posteriorly angulated ears, a long prominent nose, a small mouth and an array of cleft palate abnormalities. Cutaneous syndactyly of the fingers and toes is a recurrent manifestation. Affected individuals often have a short stature and may present with a mild intellectual disability or learning difficulties. Hypospadias is frequently reported in males. Transmission is autosomal dominant with variable expressivity.
bethlem myopathy 1	A usually autosomal dominant inherited movement disorder caused by mutations in the COL6A1, COL6A2, and COL6A3 genes. It is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and joint stiffness in the fingers, wrists, elbows, and ankles.
macrocrania, obesity, ocular abnormalities (retinal coloboma and nystagmus)	A very rare genetic overgrowth/obesity syndrome with characteristics of macrocephaly, obesity, mental (intellectual) disability and ocular abnormalities. Other frequent clinical signs include macrosomia, downslanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, broad nasal root, high and broad forehead and delay in bone maturation, in association with normal thyroid function and karyotype.
median cleft of upper lip, corpus callosum lipoma, cutaneous polyp syndrome (disorder)	An idiopathic developmental disorder with characteristics of median cleft of the upper lip, midline polyps of the facial skin and nasal mucosa and pericallosal lipomas. Hypertelorism with ocular anomalies are also observed, generally with normal neuropsychological development. Presents at birth with a variable phenotype ranging from mild facial dysmorphism to more severe anomalies resembling frontonasal dysplasia. Normal neuropsychological development was reported in all but one case that presented with epileptic seizures. Sacral dimples may be observed at birth, and hypospadias has been reported in some male patients.
hereditary congenital hypopigmented and hyperpigmented macules	A neurocutaneous syndrome with characteristics of congenital hypomelanotic and hypermelanotic cutaneous macules. It has been described in individuals spanning three generations of an Indian family. Some of the patients also had retarded growth and intellectual deficit.
punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type 1 (diagnosis)	A very rare hereditary skin disease with manifestation of irregularly distributed epidermal hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. Reported in 35 families worldwide to date. The lesions usually start to develop in early adolescence but can also present later in life. Mutations in the AAGAB gene (15q22.33-q23) have recently been identified as one of the causes. Mutations in the COL14A1 gene (8q23) have also been identified as causal in some cases in Asia that seem to have a similar phenotype
palmoplantar hyperkeratosis-deafness syndrome	A keratinization disorder characterized by focal or diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma. A patchy distribution is observed with accentuation on the thenar, hypothenar and the arches of the feet. The disease becomes apparent in infancy and is associated with sensorineural hearing loss that shows a variable age of onset. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner with incomplete penetrance. Caused by heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding connexin-26 (GJB2; 121011) on chromosome 13q12.
cednik syndrome	A neurocutaneous syndrome with characteristics of severe developmental abnormalities of the nervous system and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis. It has been described so far in seven affected individuals (four boys and three girls) from two consanguineous families. Clinically, the patients display a unique constellation of clinical signs described with the acronym CEDNIK: CErebral dysgenesis, Neuropathy, Ichthyosis, and palmoplantar Keratoderma. It is caused by mutations in the SNAP29 gene (22q11.2) that encodes a SNARE protein involved in vesicle fusion. The disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive condition.
cerebral dysgenesis, neuropathy, ichthyosis, palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome	A neurocutaneous syndrome with characteristics of severe developmental abnormalities of the nervous system and aberrant differentiation of the epidermis. It has been described so far in seven affected individuals (four boys and three girls) from two consanguineous families. Clinically, the patients display a unique constellation of clinical signs described with the acronym CEDNIK: CErebral dysgenesis, Neuropathy, Ichthyosis, and palmoplantar Keratoderma. It is caused by mutations in the SNAP29 gene (22q11.2) that encodes a SNARE protein involved in vesicle fusion. The disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive condition.
goshs	A multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of Hirschprung megacolon and microcephaly, hypertelorism, submucous cleft palate, short stature and learning disability. It has been described in about 10 patients, boys and girls. Some of the reported cases also had iris coloboma, hypotonia, and ptosis. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and was found to be caused by mutations in KIAA1279 on chromosome 10q21.3-q22.1.
epidermolysis bullosa simplex with migratory circinate erythema	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex with manifestation of belt-like areas of erythema with multiple vesicles and small blisters at the advancing edge of erythema. Prevalence is unknown but 2 families have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth. The lesions occur on the limbs and trunk and heal with brown pigmentation but no scarring. Extracutaneous involvement is absent. The disease is due to a specific mutation in the KRT5 (12q13.13) gene, encoding keratin 5. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
ekv3	MEDNIK syndrome, previously known as Erythrokeratodermia Variabilis type 3 (EKV3), has characteristics of intellectual deficit, enteropathy, sensorineural hearing loss, peripheral neuropathy, lamellar and erythrodermic ichthyosis and keratodermia. The syndrome has been described in four families descending from limited number of ancestors in Quebec. The disease is due to a mutation in the AP1S1 gene encoding the small subunit sigma1A of the AP-1 complex. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
megarbane loiselet syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome, described in one family to date, with characteristics of branchial cysts or fistula, ear malformations, congenital hearing loss (conductive, sensorineural, and mixed), internal auditory canal hypoplasia, strabismus, trismus, abnormal fifth fingers, vitiliginous lesions, short stature and mild learning disability. Renal and urethral abnormalities are absent.
pierson syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation(s) in the LAMB2 gene, encoding laminin subunit beta-2. It is characterized by congenital nephrotic syndrome with diffuse mesangial sclerosis and distinct ocular abnormalities.
meacham syndrome	A multiple malformation syndrome with characteristics of congenital diaphragmatic abnormalities, genital defects and cardiac malformations. Less than 15 patients have been reported worldwide. Ambiguous or female external genitalia are present in individuals with 46,XY karyotype. The genital abnormalities are variable and may include a true double vagina or septate vagina, absent uterus, abnormal male gonads in the presence of normal external female genitalia or male pseudohermaphroditism with abnormal internal female genitalia. Complex cyanotic congenital heart defects, (hypoplastic right lungs, anomalous pulmonary venous return and abnormalities of the diaphragm) are frequent. One patient with rhabdomyomatous dysplasia of the lungs has been reported. Mutations in the WT1 gene have been identified in some patients with Meacham syndrome. All patients reported to date died in early childhood.
ips	A rare syndromic congenital ichthyosis with characteristics of premature birth in addition to thick caseous and desquamating epidermis, neonatal respiratory asphyxia and persistent eosinophilia. After the perinatal period, a spontaneous improvement in the health of affected patients is observed and skin features (vernix caseosa-like scale) evolve into a mild presentation of flat follicular hyperkeratosis with atopy. The disease is caused by mutation in the FATP4 (SLC27A4) gene.
hypertrichosis, anterior cervical	Anterior cervical hypertrichosis (ACH) or 'hairy throat' refers to the presence of a tuft of terminal hair on the anterior neck, just above the laryngeal prominence. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20400390]
cerebro-oculo-dento-auriculo-skeletal syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the LONP1 gene. It is characterized by developmental delay, cerebral, ocular, dental, auricular, and skeletal abnormalities.
pkdts	Disease with characteristics of early-onset severe polycystic kidney disease with various manifestations of tuberous sclerosis (multiple angiomyolipomas, lymphangioleiomyomatosis and periventricular calcifications of the central nervous system). A contiguous gene syndrome caused by a large deletion involving both the PKD1 and TSC2 genes (16p13.3). Transmission is autosomal dominant.
oculomaxillofacial dysostosis	A rare genetic bone developmental disorder with characteristics of short stature, orbital region and ocular abnormalities (e.g. asymmetric orbits, anophthalmia, down-slanted and S-shaped palpebral fissures, sparse eyebrows/eyelashes, abnormal eyelids, ectropion, symblepharon, corneal leukoma), abnormal nose (e.g. broad nasal root, bridge and tip, lateral deviation), malar hypoplasia, cleft lip/palate, and oblique facial clefts. Intellectual disability, microcephaly, micrognathia and limb anomalies (e.g. hemimelia, abnormal scapular girdle, brachydactyly, syndactyly, broad halluces) have also been reported.
ichthyosis congenital autosomal recessive exfoliative	An inherited non-syndromic congenital ichthyosis characterised by the infancy-onset of palmoplantar peeling of the skin (aggravated by exposure to water and by occlusion) associated with dry, scaly skin over most of the body. Pruritus and hypohidrosis may also be associated. Well-demarcated areas of denuded skin appear in moist and traumatised regions and skin biopsies reveal reduced cell-cell adhesion in the basal and suprabasal layers, prominent intercellular oedema, numerous aggregates of keratin filaments in basal keratinocytes, attenuated cornified cell envelopes, and epidermal barrier impairment.
pterygium colli and mental retardation with facial and digital anomalies	This syndrome has characteristics of pterygium colli, digital anomalies and craniofacial abnormalities. Digital anomalies include abnormal small thumbs, widened interphalangeal joints, and broad terminal phalanges. Craniofacial abnormalities include brachycephaly, epicanthic folds, angulated eyebrows, upward slanting of the palpebral fissures, ptosis, hypertelorism, prominent low-set and posteriorly rotated ears. It has been described in a woman and her son, but the manifestations were much less severe in the mother. The son also had intellectual deficit. The inheritance is either X-linked dominant or autosomal dominant.
khalifa graham syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of pterygium colli, digital anomalies and craniofacial abnormalities. Digital anomalies include abnormal small thumbs, widened interphalangeal joints, and broad terminal phalanges. Craniofacial abnormalities include brachycephaly, epicanthic folds, angulated eyebrows, upward slanting of the palpebral fissures, ptosis, hypertelorism, prominent low-set and posteriorly rotated ears. It has been described in a woman and her son, but the manifestations were much less severe in the mother. The son also had intellectual deficit. The inheritance is either X-linked dominant or autosomal dominant.
craniodigital syndrome and intellectual disability syndrome	Syndrome with manifestations of syndactyly of the fingers and toes, characteristic facies (startled facial expression with a small pointed nose, micrognathia, long dark eyelashes and prominent eyebrows) and intellectual deficit. Less than 10 cases have been described in the literature so far. Abnormal dermatoglyphic patterns, growth retardation and brachycephaly have also been reported. Transmission appears to be autosomal or X-linked recessive.
scarf syndrome	Syndrome with the association of skeletal abnormalities, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, psychomotor retardation and facial abnormalities. So far, it has been described in two males (maternal first cousins). The mode of inheritance was suggested to be X-linked recessive.
pierre robin sequence, congenital heart defect, talipes syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of Robin sequence (micrognathia, glossoptosis, cleft palate), atrial septal defect, persistence of the left superior vena cava and talipes equinovarus. The phenotype is variable, some patients present with further dysmorphic characteristics (e.g. hypertelorism, ear abnormalities) while others do not have any key findings. Additional features, such as syndactyly, polydactyly, or brain anomalies (e.g. cerebellar hypoplasia), have also been reported. The syndrome is almost invariably lethal with affected males either dying prenatally or living just a few months. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by mutation in the RBM10 gene on chromosome Xp11.23.
xmea	This myopathy is a childhood-onset X-linked myopathy with characteristics of slow progression of muscle weakness and unique histopathological findings. It has been described in about fifteen families The first manifestations appear typically in children around 5-10 years of age and include difficulty climbing stairs and running. Transmission is X-linked recessive; female carriers are asymptomatic or only mildly affected. The Xq28 locus has been associated with the disease.
solitary median maxillary central incisor syndrome	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
single central upper incisor	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
ichthyosis cheek eyebrow syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has features of ichthyosis, prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows. It has been described in several individuals from four generations of one family. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
king syndrome	A rare genetic non-dystrophic myopathy with characteristics of the triad of congenital myopathy, dysmorphic features and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. Patients present with a wide phenotypic range, including delayed motor development, muscle weakness and fatigability, ptosis and myopathic facies (with or without creatine kinase elevations), skeletal abnormalities (short stature, scoliosis, kyphosis, lumbar lordosis and pectus carinatum/excavatum), mild dysmorphic facial features (hypertelorism, down-slanting palpebral fissures, epicanthic folds, low set ears, micrognathia), webbing of the neck, cryptorchidism, and a susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia and/or rhabdomyolysis due to intensive physical strain, viral infection or statin use.
king denborough syndrome	A rare genetic non-dystrophic myopathy with characteristics of the triad of congenital myopathy, dysmorphic features and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. Patients present with a wide phenotypic range, including delayed motor development, muscle weakness and fatigability, ptosis and myopathic facies (with or without creatine kinase elevations), skeletal abnormalities (short stature, scoliosis, kyphosis, lumbar lordosis and pectus carinatum/excavatum), mild dysmorphic facial features (hypertelorism, down-slanting palpebral fissures, epicanthic folds, low set ears, micrognathia), webbing of the neck, cryptorchidism, and a susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia and/or rhabdomyolysis due to intensive physical strain, viral infection or statin use.
hemifacial hyperplasia strabismus syndrome (disorder)	A malformation syndrome involving the abnormal growth of the facial skeleton as well as its soft tissue structure and organs. The syndrome has characteristics of mild facial asymmetry with unaffected neurocranium and eyeballs, along with esotropia, amblyopia and/or convergent strabismus and occasionally submucous cleft palate. Transmission is autosomal dominant. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1979.
cardiomelic syndrome type 3	A very rare type of heart-hand syndrome described in three members of a Spanish family to date. The syndrome has characteristics of cardiac conduction defect (sick sinus, bundle-branch block) and brachydactyly, resembling brachydactyly type C of the hands, affecting principally the middle phalanges in conjunction with an extra ossicle on the proximal phalanx of both index fingers. Feet abnormalities are more subtle.
multinodular goiter, cystic kidney, polydactyly syndrome	A very rare syndrome characterised by the association of multinodular goitre, cystic renal disease and digital anomalies. It has been described in two siblings and one unrelated child. The two siblings had digitalised thumbs and preaxial polydactyly, the third child had normal thumbs and postaxial polydactyly. Goitre and/or digitalised thumbs and/or polydactyly were present in other members of families. This syndrome seems to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with variable expression and incomplete penetrance.
glomus tumors, multiple	Hereditary vascular malformations featuring the presence of small, multifocal bluish-purple venous lesions involving the skin. May be present at birth, and slowly expand during childhood. New small lesions appear with time. Often painful on palpation and cannot be completely emptied by compression. They are usually multifocal and are located mainly on the extremities, involving the skin and subcutis. Caused by mutations in the gene encoding glomulin and inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
lelis syndrome	The association of ectodermal dysplasia (hypotrichosis and hypohidrosis) with acanthosis nigricans. So far, only eight cases have been described in the literature. Other clinical features may include palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, nail dystrophy, intellectual deficit and hypodontia. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
nablus mask-like facial syndrome	A rare microdeletion syndrome associated with a distinct facial appearance. It has been reported in four unrelated patients. A mask-like facial appearance is the most characteristic feature with blepharophimosis, tight appearing glistening facial skin, flat and broad nose, dysplastic ears and unusual scalp hair pattern. Camptodactyly, joint contractures, unusual dentition and mild developmental delay can be observed. Cryptorchidism in boys and a happy disposition are constant.
boyadjiev jabs syndrome	Syndrome that is characterised by the specific association of large and late-closing fontanelles, hypertelorism, early-onset cataract and mild generalised skeletal dysplasia. Patients have abnormal hair, frontal bossing, hyperpigmentation with capillary haemangioma of the forehead, macrocephaly, significant hypertelorism, and a broad and prominent nose. In addition patients have Y-shaped sutural cataracts. All affected individuals have proportionate short stature but intellectual development is normal. The syndrome maps to chromosome 14q13-q21 and causative mutations have been identified in the SEC23A gene.
nslh	A Noonan-related syndrome with characteristics of facial anomalies suggestive of Noonan syndrome, a distinctive hair anomaly described as loose anagen hair syndrome, frequent congenital heart defects, distinctive skin features with darkly pigmented skin, keratosis pilaris, eczema or occasional neonatal ichthyosis and short stature, often associated with a growth hormone deficiency and psychomotor delay. There is evidence that this syndrome is caused by heterozygous mutation in the SHOC2 gene on chromosome 10q25.
hypotrichosis, osteolysis, periodontitis, palmoplantar keratoderma syndrome	An extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of hypotrichosis universalis with mild to severe scarring alopecia, acro-osteolysis, onychogryphosis, thin and tapered fingertips, periodontitis and caries leading to premature teeth loss, linear or reticular palmoplantar keratoderma and erythematous, scaling, psoriasis-like skin lesions on arms and legs. Lingua plicata and ventricular tachycardia have also been observed.
chacs - curly hair, acral keratoderma, caries syndrome	An extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of premature loss of curly, brittle, dry hair, premature loss of teeth due to caries, nail dystrophy with thickening of the finger and toe-nails, acral keratoderma and hypohidrosis. Additionally, sparse eyebrows and eyelashes, receding frontal hairline and flattened malar region are associated. The severity of features appears to increase with age.
neonatal ichthyosis-sclerosing cholangitis syndrome	A very rare complex ichthyosis syndrome with characteristics of scalp hypotrichosis, scarring alopecia, ichthyosis and sclerosing cholangitis. The ichthyosis presents with diffuse white scales sparing the skin folds and is accompanied by scalp hypotrichosis, cicatricial alopecia, and sparse eyelashes/eyebrows. Additional manifestations may include oligodontia, hypodontia and enamel dysplasia. All patients present with neonatal sclerosing cholangitis with jaundice and pruritus, hepatomegaly and biochemical cholestasis. Caused by a mutation in the CLDN1 gene on chromosome 3q28 coding for the tight junction protein claudin-1. Autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
epidermolytic ichthyosis, annular	A rare clinical variant of epidermolytic ichthyosis, with manifestations of blistering phenotype at birth and the development from early infancy of annular polycyclic erythematous scales on the trunk and extremities. It has been reported in less than 10 families. The disease is caused by mutations in the KRT1 (12q11-q13) and KRT10 (17q21-q23) genes, encoding keratins 1 and 10 respectively. These mutations impair keratin filament formation and weaken the structural stability of the keratinocyte cytoskeleton. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
cranioorodigital syndrome	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
opd - otopalatodigital syndrome	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
opd syndrome 2	A severe form of otopalatodigital syndrome spectrum disorder with characteristics of dysmorphic facies, severe skeletal dysplasia affecting the axial and appendicular skeleton, extraskeletal anomalies (including malformations of the brain, heart, genitourinary system and intestine) and poor survival. Caused by gain of function mutations in the gene FLNA (Xq28) that encodes filamin A. Inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Male-to-male transmission has not been reported. The chance of transmitting the mutation in each pregnancy is 50%; males inheriting the mutation will be affected while females who inherit the mutation are less severely affected.
hyperphalangy-clinodactyly of index finger with pierre robin syndrome	A rare bone disease with anomaly of both index fingers (accessory ossicle at the metacarpophalangeal joint with resulting ulnar deviation) and typically in association with Pierre Robin sequence comprising micrognathia, cleft palate and glossoptosis. In 80% of cases, the digital abnormality is associated with Pierre Robin sequence. Additional frequently reported congenital malformations include cardiac defects such as ventricular septal defect and interatrial communication. Homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations in TGDS (13q32.1) have been implicated as causal in this syndrome. Transmission is autosomal recessive. Genetic counseling is recommended.
x-linked mandibulofacial dysostosis	An extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that has characteristics of microcephaly, malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures, highly arched palate, apparently low-set and protruding ears, micrognathia, short stature, bilateral hearing loss, and learning disability. Occasionally, additional features have been observed such as bilateral cryptorchidism, cardiac valvular lesions, body asymmetry, and pectus excavatum.
spinal muscular atrophy, x-linked 2	A rare form of spinal muscular atrophy with characteristics of the neonatal onset of severe hypotonia, areflexia, profound weakness, multiple congenital contractures, facial dysmorphic features (myopathic face with open, tent-shaped mouth), cryptorchidism, and mild skeletal abnormalities (kyphosis, scoliosis), that is often preceded by polyhydramnios and reduced fetal movements in utero and followed by bone fractures shortly after birth. Patients have a limited life span, often succumbing to the disease within 2 years, as muscle weakness is progressive and chest muscle involvement eventually leads to ventilatory insufficiency and respiratory failure.
bpp	A type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that affects both sides of the brain. [COST:neuromig, PMID:20301504]
cerebellar hypoplasia with pancytopenia	A very rare X-linked recessive disorder considered to be a severe variant of dyskeratosis congenita, characterised by intrauterine growth retardation, microcephaly, cerebellar hypoplasia, progressive combined immune deficiency and aplastic anaemia.
lissencephaly, x-linked, 2	A severe neurological disorder that only manifests in genotypic males and includes lissencephaly with posterior-to-anterior gradient and only moderate increase in thickness of the cortex, absent corpus callosum, neonatal-onset severe epilepsy, hypothalamic dysfunction including defective temperature regulation, and ambiguous genitalia with micropenis and cryptorchidism.
simpson golabi behmel syndrome type 2 (disorder)	An extremely rare and severe early-lethal form of Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome. The disease is an overgrowth-multiple anomalies syndrome with characteristics of hydrops fetalis, macrocephaly, facial dysmorphism, short neck, redundant skin, skeletal defects (involving upper and lower limbs), hypoplastic nails, gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies, hypotonia and neurologic impairment. Severe intellectual disability, obesity and infections (pneumonia, sepsis) have been reported.
alport syndrome, mental retardation, midface hypoplasia, and elliptocytosis	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of Alport syndrome, midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit and elliptocytosis. It has been described in two families. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked trait is caused by a contiguous gene deletion in Xq22.3 involving several genes including COL4A5, FACL4 and AMMECR1.
mehmo syndrome	MEHMO syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, epilepsy, microcephaly, hypogenitalism and obesity. Growth delay and diabetes are also present. To date, it has been described in seven boys, all of who died within the first two years of life. The causative gene has been located to the 21.1-22.13p region of the X chromosome and the syndrome appears to result from mitochondrial dysfunction.
lig4 syndrome	A very rare genetic disorder caused by mutation in the LIG4 gene. It is characterized by unusual facial features, microcephaly, growth and developmental delay, severe immunodeficiency, and skin abnormalities.
coloboma, congenital heart disease, ichthyosiform dermatosis, intellectual disability ear anomaly syndrome (disorder)	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome to date described in 8 cases. The syndrome has characteristics of early-onset migratory ichthyosiform dermatosis, bilateral ocular coloboma, conductive hearing loss, seizures, intellectual disability and characteristic facial features. Ears are low-set with thick over-folded helices. Teeth are widely spaced and square in shape. Less constant findings are cleft palate or a less severe equivalent, cardiac defects, pectus excavatum and supernumerary nipples. Caused by mutations in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol gene PIGL located to 17p12-p11.2. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
zunich kaye syndrome	A rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome to date described in 8 cases. The syndrome has characteristics of early-onset migratory ichthyosiform dermatosis, bilateral ocular coloboma, conductive hearing loss, seizures, intellectual disability and characteristic facial features. Ears are low-set with thick over-folded helices. Teeth are widely spaced and square in shape. Less constant findings are cleft palate or a less severe equivalent, cardiac defects, pectus excavatum and supernumerary nipples. Caused by mutations in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol gene PIGL located to 17p12-p11.2. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
xeroderma pigmentosum, complementation group e	An autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the DDB2 gene. This disease exhibits the mildest degree of sun sensitivity of all xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups, although individuals are at high risk for skin cancer.
mental retardation wolff type	A rare intellectual disability syndrome with manifestations of severe intellectual disability, characteristic facial features (low anterior hairline, upward slanting palpebral fissures, ocular hypertelorism, broad, bulbous nose, large ears with helix incompletely developed, thick lips, and micrognathia) and additional anomalies including peripheral joint contractures, delayed skeletal maturation, bilateral cleft lip and palate, strabismus, terminal hypoplasia of fingers, hypospadias, and bilateral inguinal hernias.
waardenburg-shah syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive syndrome caused by mutations in the SOX10, EDN3, or EDNRB genes. It is characterized by pigmentary abnormalities of the hair, skin, and eyes, congenital sensorineural hearing loss, and Hirschsprung disease.
oculogastrointestinal muscular dystrophy (disorder)	An extremely rare autosomal recessively inherited neuromuscular disease characterized by ocular manifestations such as ptosis and diplopia followed by chronic diarrhea, malnutrition and intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
ulna and fibula, absence of, with severe limb deficiency	Skeletal malformations affecting the ulnae, pelvic bones, fibulae and femora. Only a few cases have been described. Patients have intercalary limb deficiencies (phocomelia sometimes combined with polydactyly, oligodactyly or ectrodactyly), absent or hypoplastic pelvic bones (including sacral agenesis or hypoplasia) and skull defects. Additional features may include thoracic dystrophy, unusual facies (dysplastic and large ears, and a high and narrow palate), and genital malformations.Growth and mental development are normal.
omcs	This syndrome has characteristics of growth retardation, alopecia, abnormally long eyelashes and retinitis pigmentosa. Moderate intellectual deficit was also present in the majority of cases. To date, 11 cases have been reported. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
thymic, renal, anal, lung dysplasia syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, renal dysgenesis and a unilobed or absent thymus. It has been described in three girls born to a nonconsanguineous couple.
spondylocostal dysostosis with anal atresia and genitourinary malformation syndrome	Syndrome with the association of spondylocostal dysostosis with anal and genitourinary malformations (anal atresia and agenesis of external and internal genitalia). To date, only four cases have been described in the literature.
richieri costa pereira syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of short stature, Robin sequence, cleft mandible, pre/postaxial hand anomalies (including hypoplastic thumbs) and clubfoot. It has been described in 14 Brazilian families and in one unrelated French patient. Prominent low set ears and highly arched palate was also observed. Transmission is autosomal recessive. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the EIF4A3 gene on chromosome 17q25.
retinal detachment and occipital encephalocele	Knobloch syndrome is defined by vitreoretinal and macular degeneration, and occipital encephalocele. The disease has characteristics of early-onset severe myopia (usually becoming apparent in the first year of life), vitreoretinal degeneration with retinal detachment, macular abnormalities, and midline encephalocele (mainly in the occipital region). The syndrome is clinically and genetically heterogeneous with three forms, KNO1, KNO2 and KNO3, being defined. KNO1 is caused by inactivating mutations in the collagen XVIII/endostatin gene (COL18A1) mapped to 21q22.3. The KNO2 form was defined when linkage to the KNO1 locus was excluded in a family reported from New Zealand. Recently, a novel type of KS (KNO3) was mapped to chromosome 17q11.2. Inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
ulbright hodes syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of renal dysplasia, growth retardation, phocomelia or mesomelia, radiohumeral fusion, rib abnormalities, anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter-like facies. The syndrome has been described in three infants, all of whom died shortly after birth from respiratory distress resulting from pulmonary hypoplasia and oligohydramnios caused by renal dysplasia. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
camera syndrome	Pyknoachondrogenesis is a lethal skeletal osteochondrodysplasia characterised by severe generalised osteosclerosis. The disease is very rare and only five cases (four males and one female) have been reported in the literature so far. Pyknoachondrogenesis may be detected prenatally due to the extreme shortening of the limbs and hydrops fetalis, or is recognised at birth. The main clinical manifestations include a large head, palpebral oedema, a flat nose, low-set ears, a short neck, a short and wide trunk, a prominent abdomen, and severe micromelic dwarfism. Aetiology remains unknown. Pyknoachondrogenesis has a lethal outcome, either prenatally or during the early neonatal period.
pyknoachondrogenesis (disorder)	Pyknoachondrogenesis is a lethal skeletal osteochondrodysplasia characterised by severe generalised osteosclerosis. The disease is very rare and only five cases (four males and one female) have been reported in the literature so far. Pyknoachondrogenesis may be detected prenatally due to the extreme shortening of the limbs and hydrops fetalis, or is recognised at birth. The main clinical manifestations include a large head, palpebral oedema, a flat nose, low-set ears, a short neck, a short and wide trunk, a prominent abdomen, and severe micromelic dwarfism. Aetiology remains unknown. Pyknoachondrogenesis has a lethal outcome, either prenatally or during the early neonatal period.
pulmonary lymphangiectasia, congenital	A congenital abnormality in the lungs characterized by the presence of dilated lymphatic vessels in the interlobar, perivascular, and peribronchial areas of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear at birth and include tachypnea, cyanosis, and respiratory distress.
congenital pulmonary lymphangiectasis (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality in the lungs characterized by the presence of dilated lymphatic vessels in the interlobar, perivascular, and peribronchial areas of the lungs. Signs and symptoms appear at birth and include tachypnea, cyanosis, and respiratory distress.
pseudotrisomy 13 syndrome	A rare syndrome likely inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. It is characterized by holoprosencephaly, polydactyly, phenotypic features reminiscent of trisomy 13, and normal karyotype.
acrootoocular syndrome (disorder)	A very rare disorder associating pseudopapilledema (optic disc swelling not secondary to increased intracranial pressure) mixed hearing loss, facial dysmorphism and limb extremity anomalies. Only 4 cases have been reported in the literature from 3 inbred sibships. The affected patients have no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
bartsocas-papas syndrome 1	A rare inherited popliteal pterygium syndrome with characteristics of severe popliteal webbing, microcephaly, a typical face with short palpebral fissures, ankyloblepharon, hypoplastic nose, filiform bands between the jaws and facial clefts, genital abnormalities and additional ectodermal anomalies (absent hair, eyebrows, lashes, nails). It is often fatal in the neonatal period but survival into childhood has been reported.
bonneau syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of polysyndactyly, hexadactyly (duplication of the first toe) and complex cardiac malformation (including atrial and ventricular septal defect, single ventricle, aortic dextroposition, or dilation of the right heart). It has been described in six patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations were present in some patients (i.e. facial dysmorphism, hepatic cysts).
phaver syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the association of limb pterygia, heart anomalies, autosomal recessive inheritance, vertebral defects, ear anomalies and radial defects. It has been described in two siblings. One of the siblings also had a myelomeningocele. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary with probable autosomal recessive inheritance.
short stature, unique facies, enamel hypoplasia, progressive joint stiffness, and high-pitched voice	A very rare dysmorphic syndrome described in two siblings. The syndrome has characteristics of short stature, unique facies, enamel hypoplasia, progressive joint stiffness, high-pitched voice, cup-shaped ears and narrow palpebral fissures with epicanthal folds and intellectual deficit.
cleft palate-omphalocele syndrome, lethal	Syndrome with the association of omphalocele and cleft palate. It has been described in three daughters of normal unrelated parents. They were all diagnosed at birth. This syndrome is likely to be inherited as an autosomal recessive condition.
oculo-palato-cerebral dwarfism	The association of four anomalies: intellectual deficit, microcephaly, palate anomalies and ocular abnormalities. It has been described in five patients (three boys and two girls). The clinical manifestations are evident from birth. The palate anomaly is usually cleft palate. In the majority of cases, postnatal growth is marked by statural and ponderal retardation. Microcephaly is present in all patients.Persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous was present in all cases reported so far. Facial dysmorphology has characteristics of full cheeks, a bulbous nasal tip and long ears with thickened helices. Hands and feet are small. Anomalies of the external genitalia were reported in some of the male patients, with two of the boys displaying cryptorchidism. Skeletal anomalies include pectus excavatum, joint hyperlaxity and kyphoscoliosis. Intellectual deficit (moderate to severe) is a constant feature. So far, neither a causative gene nor locus has been identified.
myopathy, congenital, with cleft palate and malignant hyperthermia	A neuromuscular disorder characterised by weakness, arthrogryposis, kyphoscoliosis, short stature, cleft palate, ptosis and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia during anaesthesia. Reported exclusively in Native American Indians (Lumbee Indian population of North Carolina). Within this population, the prevalence is estimated at approximately 1:5,000. The locus has been localised to 12q13.13-14.1. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
keipert syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, broad and high nasal bridge, depressed nasal ridge, short columella, underdeveloped maxilla, and prominent cupid-bow upper lip vermillion), mild to severe congenital sensorineural hearing loss, and skeletal abnormalities consisting of brachytelephalangy and broad thumbs and halluces with large, rounded epiphyses. Additional manifestations that have been reported include pulmonary valve stenosis, voice hoarseness and renal agenesis.
spinocerebellar ataxia and erythrokeratodermia	Disease with characteristics of papulosquamous, ichthyosiform plaques on the limbs appearing shortly after birth and later manifestations including progressive ataxia, dysarthria, nystagmus and decreased reflexes. Reported in 25 members of one French-Canadian family to date. Due to a mutation in the ELOVL4 gene (6q14).
tbdn	A rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa characterised by generalised blistering at birth that usually regresses within the first 6 to 24 months of life. Less than 30 cases have been reported to date. The disease usually manifests at birth. Skin blisters generally affect the whole body. Blisters can also affect the oral cavity. Disease activity usually ceases within the first 6 to 24 months of life. However, nail dystrophy and some degree of skin fragility can persist in adulthood. Caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). Mutations in this gene lead to reduced amounts or an alteration in function of collagen VII. The condition is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, but can also rarely be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
ectodermal dysplasia, trichoodontoonychial type	A form of ectodermal dysplasia with hair, teeth and nail involvement. The disease has predominant characteristics of hypodontia, hypotrichosis, delayed hair growth and brittle nails. Additionally focal dermal hypoplasia, irregular hyperpigmentation, hypoplastic or absent nipples, amastia, hearing impairment, congenital hip dislocation and asthma have been associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1996.
ectodermal dysplasia trichoodontoonychial type	A form of ectodermal dysplasia with hair, teeth and nail involvement. The disease has predominant characteristics of hypodontia, hypotrichosis, delayed hair growth and brittle nails. Additionally focal dermal hypoplasia, irregular hyperpigmentation, hypoplastic or absent nipples, amastia, hearing impairment, congenital hip dislocation and asthma have been associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1996.
deafness craniofacial syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of the association of congenital hearing loss and facial dysmorphism (facial asymmetry, a broad nasal root and small nasal alae). It has been described in two members (father and daughter) of one Jewish family. Temporal alopecia was also noted. Transmission appeared to be autosomal dominant.
beare-stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant inherited disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by the premature fusion of the bones of the skull (craniosynostosis) and a skin abnormality called cutis gyrata. The craniosynostosis results in a cloverleaf-shaped skull, wide-set eyes, ear abnormalities, underdeveloped upper jaw, and developmental delays. Cutis gyrata is characterized by a wrinkled skin appearance, especially on the face, near the ears, and on the palms and soles.
tonoki ohura niikawa syndrome	This syndrome describes a combination of malformations that include bilateral cryptomicrotia (recessed, hidden and small or absent ears), brachytelomesophalangy with short middle and distal phalanges of digits two through five, hypoplastic toenails and excess fingertip arch patterns. The syndrome has been reported in one family (mother and son). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
congenital deafness with labyrinthine aplasia, microtia, and microdontia	A genetic transmission deafness syndrome. The profound congenital deafness is associated with a complete absence of inner ear structures (Michel aplasia) microtia type I with small auricle and narrow external auditory canal and microdontia with widely spaced teeth. Linkage analysis followed by sequencing of candidate genes led to identification of three different homozygous mutations in the FGF3 gene (11q13). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
acropectoral syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of a combination of distal limb abnormalities (syndactyly of all fingers and toes, preaxial polydactyly in the feet and/or hands) and upper sternum malformations. It has been described in 22 patients from a six-generation Turkish family. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait and the causative gene is located at 7q36.
inclusion body myopathy, hereditary, autosomal recessive	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the GNE gene, encoding bifunctional UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase. It is characterized by distal muscle weakness and atrophy, especially the tibialis anterior, and sparing of the quadriceps.
palmoplantar keratoderma with left ventricular cardiomyopathy and woolly hair	This syndrome has characteristics of wooly hair, palmoplantar keratoderma and dilated cardiomyopathy principally affecting the left ventricle. Only a few cases have been reported, all involving patients from Ecuador, India or Turkey. The wooly hair is present at birth and the palmoplantar keratoderma appears during the first year of life. The cardiac anomaly presents during childhood and is marked by dilation of the left ventricle accompanied by alterations in muscle contractility. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and is caused by mutations in the DSP gene (6p24) encoding desmoplakin, a protein involved in cell adhesion. The syndrome is similar to Naxos disease.
carvajal syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of wooly hair, palmoplantar keratoderma and dilated cardiomyopathy principally affecting the left ventricle. Only a few cases have been reported, all involving patients from Ecuador, India or Turkey. The wooly hair is present at birth and the palmoplantar keratoderma appears during the first year of life. The cardiac anomaly presents during childhood and is marked by dilation of the left ventricle accompanied by alterations in muscle contractility. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and is caused by mutations in the DSP gene (6p24) encoding desmoplakin, a protein involved in cell adhesion. The syndrome is similar to Naxos disease.
cerebrooculonasal syndrome	A multisystem malformation syndrome that has been reported in about 10 patients. The clinical features include bilateral anophthalmia, abnormal nares, central nervous system anomalies, and neurodevelopmental delay. Additional features include brachycephaly and other facial anomalies. Non-facial anomalies have also been reported: postaxial polydactyly, genital hypoplasia. All cases reported so far have been sporadic, suggesting that the syndrome may be due to a new dominant mutation.
wiedemann steiner syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of short stature, hypertrichosis cubiti, facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, long eyelashes, thick eyebrows, downslanted, vertically narrow, long palpebral fissures, wide nasal bridge, broad nasal tip, long philtrum), developmental delay and mild to moderate intellectual disability. It has a variable clinical phenotype with additional manifestations reported including muscular hypotonia, patent ductus arteriosus, small hands and feet, hypertrichosis on the back and seizures. There is evidence the disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MLL gene on chromosome 11q23.
wiedemann steiner syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of short stature, hypertrichosis cubiti, facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, long eyelashes, thick eyebrows, downslanted, vertically narrow, long palpebral fissures, wide nasal bridge, broad nasal tip, long philtrum), developmental delay and mild to moderate intellectual disability. It has a variable clinical phenotype with additional manifestations reported including muscular hypotonia, patent ductus arteriosus, small hands and feet, hypertrichosis on the back and seizures. There is evidence the disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MLL gene on chromosome 11q23.
belgian type mental retardation syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of moderate intellectual deficit, craniofacial dysmorphism, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, eunuchoid habitus, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and epilepsy. It has been described in four patients (three brothers and their sister). This syndrome is probably transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
keutel syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of diffuse cartilage calcification, brachytelephalangism, peripheral pulmonary artery stenoses and facial dysmorphism. The abnormal calcification principally involves the cartilage of the ears, nose, larynx and the tracheobronchial tree. Epiphyseal stippling of the long bones and calcification of the spinal column vertebrae have also been reported. The dysmorphism is characterised by an elongated face with maxillary and midface hypoplasia. Other associated features may include hearing loss and recurrent otitis and/or sinusitis, mild intellectual deficit, frequent respiratory infections, nasal speech and, more rarely, seizures and short stature. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the matrix Gla protein (MGP, located at 12p13.1-p12.3). The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
keratosis palmoplantaris with periodontopathia and onychogryposis	A rare syndrome with characteristics of palmoplantar hyperkeratosis, severe early-onset periodontitis, onychogryposis, pes planus, arachnodactyly and acroosteolysis. The syndrome presents with severe and extensive skin manifestations. Severe, early-onset progressive periodontitis that affects both the deciduous and permanent dentitions and presents with gingival inflammation and alveolar bone destruction is a hallmark of the disease. Onychogryposis, arachnodactyly, acroosteolysis and pes planus are additional features that help to distinguish from other forms of palmoplantar hyperkeratosis. The syndrome is caused by germline mutations in the lysosomal protease cathepsin C (CTSC) gene mapped to chromosome 11q14.1-q14.3. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
jagell, holmgren, hofer syndrome	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by severe generalised lamellar icthyosis at birth with alopecia, eclabium, ectropion and intellectual disability. Although similar to Sjogren-Larsson syndrome, this syndrome lacks the presence of neurologic or macular changes. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
hypothyroidism, thyroidal or athyroidal, with spiky hair and cleft palate	A very rare syndrome of congenital hypothyroidism with characteristics of thyroid dysgenesis, cleft palate and spiky hair, with or without choanal atresia, and bifid epiglottis. Facial dysmorphism and porencephaly have been reported in isolated cases. Only 8 patients from 6 families have been reported to date. Newborns present at birth with thyroid dysgenesis (in most cases athyreosis) leading to congenital hypothyroidism that manifests with lethargy, poor feeding, macroglossia, cold or mottled skin, persistent jaundice and umbilical hernia. All newborns have a cleft palate and spiky hair. The syndrome is due to homozygous loss-of-function missense mutations located within the forkhead domain of the FOXE1 gene (9q22), encoding thyroid transcription factor 2 (TTF-2). TTF-2 is expressed in the thyroid gland (as well as elsewhere like the tongue, epiglottis and palate) and is thought to play a crucial role in thyroid morphogenesis. The disease is inherited autosomal recessively.
bamforth lazarus syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome of congenital hypothyroidism with characteristics of thyroid dysgenesis, cleft palate and spiky hair, with or without choanal atresia, and bifid epiglottis. Facial dysmorphism and porencephaly have been reported in isolated cases. Only 8 patients from 6 families have been reported to date. Newborns present at birth with thyroid dysgenesis (in most cases athyreosis) leading to congenital hypothyroidism that manifests with lethargy, poor feeding, macroglossia, cold or mottled skin, persistent jaundice and umbilical hernia. All newborns have a cleft palate and spiky hair. The syndrome is due to homozygous loss-of-function missense mutations located within the forkhead domain of the FOXE1 gene (9q22), encoding thyroid transcription factor 2 (TTF-2). TTF-2 is expressed in the thyroid gland (as well as elsewhere like the tongue, epiglottis and palate) and is thought to play a crucial role in thyroid morphogenesis. The disease is inherited autosomal recessively.
hypomandibular faciocranial dysostosis (disorder)	A cranial malformation with characteristics of facial dysmorphism (proptosis, frontal bossing, midface and zygomatic arches hypoplasia, short nose with anteverted nostrils, microstomia with persistent buccopharyngeal membrane, severe hypoglossia with glossoptosis, severe mandibular hypoplasia and low set ears) associated with laryngeal hypoplasia and craniosynostosis. Other variable features include cleft palate, optic nerve coloboma and choanal stenosis. An autosomal recessive mode of inheritance has been suggested.
naguib syndrome	A very rare syndrome associating an acro-fronto-facio-nasal dysostosis with genitourinary anomalies. It has been described in three families. Craniofacial manifestations include wide anterior fontanelle, flat occiput, hypertelorism, ptosis, proptosis, broad nasal bridge and nasal tip, long philtrum and posteriorly rotated or low set ears. Hypospadias and shawl scrotum are present in all males. Acral manifestations include syndactyly of fingers, broad thumbs or halluces or preaxial polydactyly. The affected patients have no intellectual deficit. The condition seems to be hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
hirschsprung disease with nail hypoplasia and dysmorphism	A fatal malformative disorder with characteristics of Hirschsprung disease, hypoplastic nails, distal limb hypoplasia and minor craniofacial dysmorphic features (flat facies, upward slanting palpebral fissures, narrow philtrum, narrow, high arched palate, micrognathia, low set ears with abnormal helices). Hydronephrosis has also been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
mowat-wilson syndrome (disorder)	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the ZEB2 gene. It is characterized by mental retardation, and a distinctive facial appearance (wide set eyes, uplifted earlobes, broad nasal bridge, prominent chin, and a smiling expression). The majority of patients have Hirschsprung disease (colonic enlargement and constipation due to intestinal blockage).
hearing loss, sensorineural, with enamel hypoplasia and nail defects	This syndrome is characterised by sensorineural hearing loss, generalised enamel hypoplasia of the permanent dentition with normal primary dentition and nail defects (Beau's lines and leukonychia). Less than 10 patients have been described so far. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
kinky hair, photosensitivity, broken eyebrows and eyelashes, and nonprogressive mental retardation	Syndrome with the association of stubby, coarse, sparse and fragile hair, eyebrows and eyelashes with photosensitivity and nonprogressive intellectual deficit, without a demonstrable metabolic aberration. It has been described in three sisters born to consanguineous parents.
gonadal dysgenesis xy type with associated anomalies	An association syndrome described only once in two sisters. They had a 46,XY karyotype, cleft lip and palate, preauricular pits and a 'squashed down' appearance because of a short columella and small nares. Other anomalies included broad hands and feet, and a hypermuscular appearance. Cardiac, renal, musculoskeletal and ectodermal anomalies were also present. Ectodermal defects included 'punched out scalp defects' and unusual positioning of hair whorls. They also had short stature, streak gonads, and mild developmental delay.
fibular aplasia or hypoplasia, femoral bowing and poly-, syn-, and oligodactyly	This syndrome has main characteristics of bowing of the femora, aplasia or hypoplasia of the fibulae and poly, oligo and syndactyly. It has been reported in 11 patients. Most of the patients also had a hypoplastic pelvis and hypoplasia of the fingers and fingernails. Some had congenital dislocation of the hip, absence or fusion of tarsal bones, absence of various metatarsals and hypoplasia and aplasia of the toes. The syndrome is caused by a partial loss of WNT7A function (gene mapped to 3p25).
faciodigitogenital syndrome, recessive	A very rare syndrome including short stature, facial dysmorphism, hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum. It has been observed in 16 subjects from five distantly related sibships of a large Kuwaiti Bedouin tribe. The affected patients had no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
aarskog-like syndrome	A very rare syndrome including short stature, facial dysmorphism, hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum. It has been observed in 16 subjects from five distantly related sibships of a large Kuwaiti Bedouin tribe. The affected patients had no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
kuwait-type faciodigitogenital syndrome	A very rare syndrome including short stature, facial dysmorphism, hand abnormalities and shawl scrotum. It has been observed in 16 subjects from five distantly related sibships of a large Kuwaiti Bedouin tribe. The affected patients had no intellectual deficit. Transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia	Lethal faciocardiomelic dysplasia is an extremely rare polymalformative syndrome. It was described only once, in 1975, in 3 affected males in a sibship of 13, from second-cousin parents. Patients were all of low birth weight, had microretrognathia, microstomia, and microglossia, hypoplasia of the radius and ulna with radial deviation of the hands, simian creases and hypoplasia of fingers I and V, hypoplasia of the fibula and tibia with talipes and wide space between toes I and II, and severe malformation of the left heart which may have been responsible for death of all 3 in the first week or so of life.
dyssegmental dwarfism, silverman-handmaker type	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia and lethal form of neonatal short-limbed dwarfism, with characteristics of anisospondyly, severe short stature and limb shortening, metaphyseal flaring and distinct dysmorphic features (flat facial appearance, abnormal ears, short neck, narrow thorax). Additional features may include other skeletal findings (for example joint contractures, bowed limbs, talipes equinovarus) and urogenital and cardiovascular abnormalities.
von voss-cherstvoy syndrome	A very rare disorder with phocomelia of upper limbs, encephalocele, variable brain anomalies, urogenital abnormalities and thrombocytopenia. Less than 15 cases have been reported. The spectrum of upper limb defects varies from radial agenesis and phocomelia to amelia. A meningoencephalocele is constant. The intellectual development may be normal. Pathogenesis and cause of this syndrome are unknown. Parental consanguinity reported in a family suggests an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
kirghizian dermatoosteolysis	Disease with characteristics of recurrent skin ulceration, arthralgia, fever, peri-articular osteolysis, oligodontia and nail dystrophy. This disease has been described in five siblings in a family of Kirghizian origin (Central Asia). Three of the siblings also presented with keratitis leading to visual impairment or blindness. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
dermatoleukodystrophy (disorder)	This syndrome is characterised by the association of a progressive leukodystrophy marked by generalised mental and motor impairment with the presence of thickened and wrinkled skin. It has been described in a Japanese brother and sister born to healthy parents. Both patients died in early childhood.
cardiocranial syndrome pfeiffer type (disorder)	An extremely rare disorder found in less than ten patients worldwide with characteristics of congenital heart defect, sagittal craniosynostosis and severe developmental delay. Genital and renal anomalies, and various dysmorphic features may be present. Joint and palpebral abnormalities may also occur. The occurrence of the syndrome in a brother-sister sibship supports the hypothesis of autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance and submicroscopic deletions have also been proposed as possible causes.
temtamy syndrome	A very rare congenital genetic neurological disorder with characteristics of agenesis/hypoplasia of corpus callosum with developmental abnormalities, ocular disorders and variable craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities. Most reported families have multiple cases of Temtamy syndrome and almost all affected individuals are from consanguineous unions. The main clinical findings are dysmorphic facies, hypotonia, moderate to severe intellectual disability, intractable seizures and autistic features such as absent language or stereotypy. Motor and cognitive delay usually manifests in early childhood. The pathogenesis of Temtamy syndrome is not known. Various mutations (homozygous, missense, compound heterozygous) in the C12orf57 gene (12p13.31) have been reported in affected patients. Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
crane heise syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome characterised by poorly mineralised calvarium, facial dysmorphism, vertebral abnormalities and absent clavicles. Nine cases have been reported in the literature so far. Dysmorphic features include micrognathia, cleft palate, hypertelorism and upturned nares. Clavicular aplasia is constant and agenesis of cervical vertebral bodies is frequent. Intra uterine growth retardation is constant. It is most likely that the condition is hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor, the syndrome is almost always lethal soon after birth.
craniosynostosis warman type	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of highly variable craniosynostosis with frontal bossing, turribrachycephaly and cloverleaf skull anomaly. Hypoplasia of the supraorbital ridges, cleft palate, extra teeth and limb anomalies has also been described. Associated problems include headache, poor vision, and seizures. Intelligence is normal.
craniosynostosis 2	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of highly variable craniosynostosis with frontal bossing, turribrachycephaly and cloverleaf skull anomaly. Hypoplasia of the supraorbital ridges, cleft palate, extra teeth and limb anomalies has also been described. Associated problems include headache, poor vision, and seizures. Intelligence is normal.
mcgrath syndrome	A suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterized by generalized superficial erosions and less commonly blistering. Prevalence is unknown but 11 cases have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth with skin blistering and generalized erythema which rapidly regresses. The disease is due to mutations in the PKP1 (1q32) gene encoding plakophilin-1. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
camisa disease	A diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma with manifestation of honeycomb palmoplantar hyperkeratosis associated with pseudoainhum of the fifth digit of the hand, ichthyosis and deafness.Follows an autosomal dominant mode of transmission.
cleft lip, limb and heart malformation syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of multiple skeletal malformations (short femora and humeri, bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet, bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligo/polysyndactyly, deformed lumbosacral spine), congenital heart disease (truncus arteriosus), lung and urogenital malformations (bilateral bilobar lungs, horseshoe kidney, cryptorchidism), and facial malformations (bilateral cleft lip and palate, micrognathia, small, low-set ears without external meatus). It is lethal in the neonatal period. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
verloove vanhorick brubakk syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of multiple skeletal malformations (short femora and humeri, bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet, bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligo/polysyndactyly, deformed lumbosacral spine), congenital heart disease (truncus arteriosus), lung and urogenital malformations (bilateral bilobar lungs, horseshoe kidney, cryptorchidism), and facial malformations (bilateral cleft lip and palate, micrognathia, small, low-set ears without external meatus). It is lethal in the neonatal period. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
cerebelloparenchymal disorder iii	In this disorder cerebellar ataxia is congenital (non-progressive) and characterised by cerebellar symptoms such as incoordination of gait often associated with poor coordination of hands, speech and eye movements. The other features are congenital mental retardation and hypotonia, in addition to other neurological and non-neurological features. The mode of inheritance in the few reported families is autosomal recessive.
cardioskeletal syndrome, kuwaiti type	Heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia (including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs). It has been described only once in the literature, in two male siblings from Kuwaiti first cousins. The clinical and radiological features of these patients were reported as a distinct cardio-skeletal syndrome.
tel hashomer camptodactyly syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of camptodactyly, muscle hypoplasia and weakness, skeletal anomalies, facial dysmorphism and abnormal dermatoglyphics. Dysmorphic features include facial asymmetry, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, long philtrum and a small mouth. Winging scapulae, scoliosis, syndactyly and clinodactyly are commonly observed. The affected patients usually have normal mental development. The molecular basis of the syndrome has not yet been elucidated.
ftss	A rare syndrome consisting of growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, camptodactyly and skeletal anomalies. To date only eight cases have been reported in the literature. Dysmorphic features include flat face, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, small downturned mouth, small ears with attached lobule and abnormal dental eruption and occlusion. Some patients had psychomotor development delayed. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
bird-headed dwarfism montreal type	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of severe short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism (microcephaly, narrow face with flat cheeks, ptosis, prominent nose with a convex ridge, low-set ears with small or absent lobes, high-arched/cleft palate, micrognathia), associated with premature graying and loss of scalp hair, redundant, dry and wrinkled skin of the palms, premature senility and varying degrees of intellectual disability. Cryptorchidism and skeletal anomalies may also be observed. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1970.
joint contractures, hyperkeratosis, and severe hypoplasia of the posterior columns	An arthrogryposis syndrome described in two siblings to date with the association of multiple congenital joint contractures (of the large joints, fingers and toes) and hyperkeratosis (i.e. thick, scaling and fissured skin) and death occurring in early infancy. There have been no further reports in the literature since 1993.
microcephalus with albinism and digital anomaly syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome associating microcephaly, micrognathia, oculocutaneous albinism, hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fingers and agenesia of the distal end of the right big toe. It has been described in two siblings. Both brother and sister had psychomotor retardation and died in the course of a respiratory infection. The reported cases suggest that the condition is hereditary, and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
microcephaly albinism digital anomalies syndrome	A very rare syndrome associating microcephaly, micrognathia, oculocutaneous albinism, hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fingers and agenesia of the distal end of the right big toe. It has been described in two siblings. Both brother and sister had psychomotor retardation and died in the course of a respiratory infection. The reported cases suggest that the condition is hereditary, and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
neuroectodermal melanolysosomal disease	Syndrome that is characterised by silvery to leaden hair, bronze skin colour in sun-exposed areas and severe neurological impairment. The syndrome was first described in 1979 in three consanguineous families. It is either congenital or develops during childhood (seizures, severe hypotonia and intellectual deficit). There is no impairment of the immune system and a wide spectrum of ophthalmologic abnormalities has been described. Molecular data has shed light on the complex relationship that exists between this syndrome and Griscelli syndrome. Mutations in the myosin Va gene (MYOVA) result in the so-called Griscelli syndrome type 1. MYOVA encodes myosin Va, an actin-based motor protein important for the intracellular transport of organelles in melanocyte and neuronal cells. It is very likely that Griscelli syndrome type 1 corresponds to with this syndrome.
ackerman syndrome (disorder)	Ackerman syndrome has characteristics of pyramidal molar roots and taurodontism associated with variable anomalies. It has been described in two generations of one family. Both parents and their six siblings had pyramidal, taurodont or fused molar roots. Some of the patients also had hypotrichosis, an abnormal upper lip, thickened and wide philtrum, and/or juvenile glaucoma. Other features included entropion of the eyelid, syndactyly and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers.
juvenile glaucoma with unusual upper lip and dental roots	Ackerman syndrome has characteristics of pyramidal molar roots and taurodontism associated with variable anomalies. It has been described in two generations of one family. Both parents and their six siblings had pyramidal, taurodont or fused molar roots. Some of the patients also had hypotrichosis, an abnormal upper lip, thickened and wide philtrum, and/or juvenile glaucoma. Other features included entropion of the eyelid, syndactyly and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers.
tricho-retino-dento-digital syndrome	An autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome, with characteristics of uncombable hair syndrome, congenital hypotrichosis and dental abnormalities such as oligodontia or hyperdontia and associated with early-onset cataract, retinal pigmentary dystrophy and brachydactyly with brachymetacarpia. Furthermore, hyperactivity and a mild intellectual deficit have been reported in affected patients.
thoracolaryngopelvic dysplasia syndrome	A short-rib dysplasia with characteristics of thoracic dystrophy, laryngeal stenosis and a small pelvis. Less than 10 cases have been reported in the literature so far. Patients present with severe respiratory distress (requiring intubation) during the neonatal period. The rib shortening is less severe than in Jeune syndrome and the thorax is characteristically small, narrow and bell-shaped. The pelvis is reduced in all dimensions and the combination of the thorax anomalies and the small pelvis give the appearance of a protruding abdomen. Subglottic stenosis has also been described but it remains unclear whether this is a congenital anomaly or is secondary to long-term intubation. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
short stature, wormian bones, dextrocardia syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of wormian bones, dextrocardia and short stature due to a growth hormone deficiency. Additional manifestations that have been reported include brachycamptodactyly, kidney hypoplasia, bilateral cryptorchidism, midshaft hypospadias, imperforate anus/anorectal agenesis, body asymmetry, mild developmental delay, hemimegalencephaly and facial dysmorphism, such as hypotelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, low-set and posteriorly angulated ears, depressed nasal bridge and microstomia.
blepharo-cheilo-dontic syndrome	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with the association of abnormalities of the eyelids, lips, and teeth. These anomalies include lower eyelid ectropion, upper eyelid distichiasis, euryblepharon, bilateral cleft lip and palate and conical teeth. Additional occasional features include hypertelorism, lagophthalmos, imperforate anus, and syndactyly. Prevalence is unknown. Over 50 cases have been described in literature to date. Transmission is autosomal dominant with 100% penetrance.
bod syndrome	A very rare malformation syndrome with characteristics of short stature, hypoplastic fifth digits with tiny dysplastic nails, facial dysmorphism with coarse features including a wide mouth and broad nose, and mild intellectual disability. It has been suggested that Coffin-Siris syndrome and BOD syndrome are perhaps allelic variants.
anterior segment dysgenesis	Abnormal development (dysgenesis) of the anterior segment of the eye globe. These structures are mainly of mesenchymal origin. [DDD:ncarter]
cooks syndrome (disorder)	A rare malformation syndrome affecting the apical structures of digits and presenting with hypo/aplasia of nails and distal phalanges. Cooks syndrome is congenital and presents with hypo/anonychia, small or absent distal phalanges and digitalization of the thumbs. Usually, the nails of digits 1-3 are progressively deformed, with anonychia congenita totalis in the digits 4-5 and in all toes. Additional features include hypoplasia of the distal phalanges in digits 2-4 with absence of the distal phalanx of digit 5. In the feet, there is absence of all distal phalanges of digits 2-5 with hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of digit 1.
ameloonychohypohidrotic syndrome	A rare syndrome comprising hypocalcified-hypoplastic tooth enamel, onycholysis with subungual hyperkeratosis, and hypohidrosis.
propping zerres syndrome	The ADULT (acro-dermato-ungual-lacrimal-tooth) syndrome has characteristics of ectrodactyly, excessive freckling, onychodysplasia, obstruction of lacrimal ducts and hypodontia and/or early loss of permanent teeth. Variable clinical expression is observed. Fourteen cases have been described so far. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
adult syndrome	The ADULT (acro-dermato-ungual-lacrimal-tooth) syndrome has characteristics of ectrodactyly, excessive freckling, onychodysplasia, obstruction of lacrimal ducts and hypodontia and/or early loss of permanent teeth. Variable clinical expression is observed. Fourteen cases have been described so far. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
f syndrome	A skeletal dysplasia with characteristics of fusion of the carpal and tarsal bones and complex anomalies of the fingers and toes. It has been described in less than 30 patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations include prominence of the sternum with variable pectus excavatum, lumbosacral spina bifida occulta, minor craniofacial anomalies and mild intellectual deficit. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with full penetrance. The causative gene has been mapped to chromosome region 2q36.
yss	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
mental retardation unusual facies hypothyroidism	Rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypothyroidism, facial dysmorphism (microcephaly, blepharophimosis, a bulbous nose, thin lip, low-set ears and micrognathia), postaxial polydactyly and severe intellectual deficit. Cryptorchidism is present in affected males. Some patients also have cardiac anomalies (interventricular communication), hypotonia and growth delay.
chromosome 14q22 deletion syndrome	A rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of ocular anomalies (anophthalmia/microphthalmia, ptosis, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), pituitary anomalies (pituitary hypoplasia/aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation) and hand/foot anomalies (polydactyly, short digits, pes cavus). Other clinical features may include muscular hypotonia, psychomotor development delay/intellectual disability, dysmorphic signs (facial asymmetry, microretrognathia, high-arched palate, ear anomalies), congenital genitourinary malformations and hearing impairment. Smaller 14q22 deletions may have variable expression.
frias syndrome	A rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of ocular anomalies (anophthalmia/microphthalmia, ptosis, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), pituitary anomalies (pituitary hypoplasia/aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation) and hand/foot anomalies (polydactyly, short digits, pes cavus). Other clinical features may include muscular hypotonia, psychomotor development delay/intellectual disability, dysmorphic signs (facial asymmetry, microretrognathia, high-arched palate, ear anomalies), congenital genitourinary malformations and hearing impairment. Smaller 14q22 deletions may have variable expression.
odontotrichoungual-digital-palmar syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal teeth, trichodystrophy and malformations of the hands and feet. To date, it has been reported in 21 patients and is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
klick	An inherited epidermal disorder with characteristics of palmoplantar keratoderma, linear hyperkeratotic papules on the flexural side of large joints (cord-like distribution around wrists, in antecubital and popliteal folds), hyperkeratotic plaques (on neck, axillae, elbows, wrists, and knees), mild ichthyosiform scaling, and sclerotic constrictions around fingers that present flexural deformities. The disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the POMP gene.
deaf blind hypopigmentation syndrome yemenite type (disorder)	An exceedingly rare genetic disorder with characteristics of cutaneous pigmentation anomalies, ocular disorders and hearing loss. The syndrome was described in 1990 in two patients from the same Yemenite family. A brother and sister were described as having cutaneous patchy hypo and hyperpigmentation on the trunk and extremities, grey hair, white brows and lashes. Ocular manifestations were microcornea, coloboma and abnormalities of the anterior chamber of the eye. Both patients had severe hearing loss and dental abnormalities. Intelligence was reported to be normal. Their parents were unaffected and possibly consanguineous. The cause of this syndrome has not been determined. The inheritance pattern appears to be autosomal recessive.
severe t-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, nail dystrophy syndrome	A rare type of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) with missing functional T-cells. The disease affects growth of the hair and nails. Affected individuals have no scalp hair, eyebrows, or eyelashes and the nails are often ridged, pitted, or abnormally curved. The disease results from mutations in the FOXN1 gene which prevents cells from making any functional FOXN1 protein.
teunissen-cremers syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital conductive deafness due to stapes ankylosis, broad thumbs and first toes and hyperopia. So far, it has been described in multiple members of six families. Other skeletal malformations were also reported including short distal phalanges and syndactyly, but symphalangism is usually absent. Transmission is autosomal dominant and the syndrome is caused by mutations in the NOG gene (17q22).
karsch neugebauer syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of split-hand and split-foot deformity and ocular abnormalities mainly a congenital nystagmus. Ten cases from four families have been reported in the literature. In some cases the hands are monodactylous. The affected patients have normal mental development. The condition seems to be autosomal dominant with a relatively high proportion of gonadal mosaicism.
pharynx and larynx hypoplasia with omphalocele	A very rare inherited malformation syndrome with characteristics of omphalocele, scoliosis, mild dysmorphic features (downslanted palpebral fissures, s-shaped eyelids and thin upper lip), laryngeal and pharyngeal hypoplasia and learning disabilities.
early balding, patella luxation, acromicria, and hypogonadism	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, patella luxations, acromicria, hypogonadism, facial dysmorphism (including midface hypoplasia and premature frontotemporal balding). It has been described in three unrelated males.
mental retardation with pterygia, shortness and distinct facial appearance	This syndrome has manifestation of short stature, craniofacial anomalies and genital hypoplasia. Intellectual deficit is also found in the majority of cases, sometimes together with pterygia. Less than 20 cases have been described so far. The mode of transmission is likely to be autosomal dominant with incomplete penetrance. The syndrome is caused by unbalanced reciprocal translocations of the distal parts of chromosomes 6q and 9p, leading to partial trisomy of the distal region of chromosome 6q and partial monosomy of the distal region of chromosome 9p.
polydactyly, postaxial, with median cleft of upper lip	Syndrome with characteristics of median cleft of upper lip, postaxial polydactyly of hands and feet and oral manifestations (duplicated frenulum). Less than 20 patients (predominantly of Indian origin) have been reported so far. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
foramina parietalia permagna	A developmental defect with manifestation of variable intramembranous ossification defects of the parietal bones, which is asymptomatic, symptomatic or associated with other pathologies. A congenital disorder caused by insufficient ossification around the parietal notch. In most cases this results from heterozygous loss of function mutations in human homeobox genes, MSX2 (5q35.2) and ALX4 (11p11.2), which encode transcription factors involved in skeletal development. Transmission is autosomal dominant with high but incomplete penetrance.
shone complex (disorder)	A congenital cardiovascular abnormality characterized by the presence of subvalvar left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, coarctation of the aorta, and mitral stenosis.
prepenile scrotum	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the partial or complete transposition of the penis and scrotum. In cases of complete penoscrotal transposition, the scrotum is positioned anteriorly and above the penis. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
trichothiodystrophy syndrome	Autosomal recessive neuroectodermal disorders characterized by brittle sulfur-deficient hair associated with impaired intellect, decreased fertility, and short stature. It may include nail dystrophy, ICHTHYOSIS, and photosensitivity correlated with a NUCLEOTIDE EXCISION REPAIR defect. All individuals with this disorder have a deficiency of cysteine-rich KERATIN-ASSOCIATED PROTEINS found in the interfilamentous matrix. Photosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in at least 2 separate genes: ERCC2 PROTEIN gene and the related ERCC3. Nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in the TTDN1 gene.
trichothiodystrophy	Autosomal recessive neuroectodermal disorders characterized by brittle sulfur-deficient hair associated with impaired intellect, decreased fertility, and short stature. It may include nail dystrophy, ICHTHYOSIS, and photosensitivity correlated with a NUCLEOTIDE EXCISION REPAIR defect. All individuals with this disorder have a deficiency of cysteine-rich KERATIN-ASSOCIATED PROTEINS found in the interfilamentous matrix. Photosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in at least 2 separate genes: ERCC2 PROTEIN gene and the related ERCC3. Nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy can be caused by mutation in the TTDN1 gene.
congenital vascular abnormality	A congenital abnormality of the arteries and veins, lymph vessels or veins and lymph vessels.
sed-bds	An extremely rare type of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia described in about 5 patients to date with clinical signs including short stature, peculiar facies with blepharophimosis, upward slanted eyes, abundant eyebrows and eyelashes, coarse voice, and short hands and feet.
renal hepatic pancreatic dysplasia	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with the triad of pancreatic fibrosis (and cysts, with a reduction of parenchymal tissue), renal dysplasia (with peripheral cortical cysts, primitive collecting ducts, glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage) and hepatic dysgenesis (enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendency to perilobular fibrosis). Situs abnormalities, skeletal anomalies and anencephaly have also been associated. Patients that survive the neonatal period present renal insufficiency, chronic jaundice and insulin-dependant diabetes.
cantu craniofaciofrontodigital syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of mild intellectual disability, short stature, cardiac anomalies, mild dysmorphic features (macrocephaly, prominent forehead, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), cutis laxa, joint hyperlaxity, wrinkled palms and soles and skeletal anomalies (sella turcica, wide ribs and small vertebral bodies).
intellectual disability birk-barel type	A rare condition with characteristics of intellectual disability, delayed development of speech and motor skills, hypotonia from birth, lethargy, weak cry, facial weakness, feeding difficulties, failure to thrive. Dysphagia often lasts into adolescence. While muscle tone may improve over time, affected individuals usually have some weakness into adulthood. The weakness can lead to permanent contractures and scoliosis. Also associated with unusual facial features, cleft palate, long neck, narrow chest, tapered fingers. Caused by mutations in the KCNK9 gene, which alter TASK3 channels reducing the flow of ions through the channels and disrupting normal neuron development and excitability. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. About 20 percent of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
progeroid syndrome, congenital, petty type	A rare premature aging syndrome with characteristics of pre and postnatal growth retardation, a congenital premature-aged appearance with distinctive craniofacial dysmorphism (wide calvaria with large open anterior fontanelle and wide metopic suture, broad forehead, small face, micrognathia), markedly diminished subcutaneous fat, cutis laxa and wrinkled skin, without delay in psychomotor development. Scant, brittle hair, hypoplastic nails and delayed, abnormal dentition, as well as hypoplastic distal phalanges, umbilical hernia and eye abnormalities (myopia/hyperopia, strabismus), are also commonly associated.
crouzon syndrome with acanthosis nigricans	A distinct form of Crouzon disease associated with acanthosis nigricans caused by a specific mutation (p.Ala391Glu) in the transmembrane domain of FGFR3. The disease is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner with variable penetrance.
ebspa	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterised by generalised severe blistering with widespread congenital absence of skin and pyloric atresia. Prevalence is unknown, but at least 12 families have been reported to date. Onset is at birth and babies are usually born prematurely with a low weight and poor general condition. Most cases are due to mutations in the PLEC gene (8q24) encoding the plectin 1 protein. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
congenital pulmonary alveolar capillary dysplasia	A rare lethal congenital abnormality that refers to the abnormal development of the capillaries around the alveoli in the lung parenchyma. It manifests as respiratory distress and persistent pulmonary hypertension in infancy.
tmbts	A rare developmental anomaly syndrome with characteristics of severe intellectual disability and distal hypoplasia of digits, particularly of thumbs and halluces, with nail aplasia or hypoplasia. Facial dysmorphism with a pseudo-myopathic appearance has been reported, which may include high anterior hairline or low frontal hairline with central cowlick, flat forehead, ptosis, hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds, ears with thick helices, broad depressed nasal bridge with anteverted nares, short columella, long philtrum, high-arched palate, broad mouth with thick vermilion border of the upper or the lower lip and downturned corners. Marked hypotonia, seizures and global developmental delay have been reported, associated with autistic spectrum disorder manifestations in some patients.
serkal	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
serkal (sex reversion, kidney, adrenal and lung dysgenesis) syndrome	An autosomal recessive condition characterized by female to male sex reversal and kidney, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis, due to mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene.
goldblatt chondrodysplasia	Odontochondrodysplasia, also called Goldblatt syndrome, is a very rare syndrome associating chondrodysplasia with dentinogenesis imperfecta. To date, 11 patients have been reported. Chondrodysplasia has characteristics of mesomelic limb shortening, joint laxity, platyspondyly with coronal clefts, brachydactyly and coxa valga. The affected patients have no intellectual deficit. The condition is most probably hereditary, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
spastic paraplegia, intellectual disability, palmoplantar hyperkeratosis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, spasticity in the lower limbs (spastic paraplegia), pes cavus deformity of both feet, an abnormal gait, and palmar and plantar hyperkeratosis. It has been reported in four brothers. The mother of the affected boys had normal intelligence, plantar hyperkeratosis and a strong facial resemblance to her retarded sons. Her three daughters were normal. This syndrome most likely an X-linked recessive condition.
varadi syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
varadi papp syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
varadi-papp syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
oral-facial-digital syndrome, type 6	A rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by orofacial anomalies, metacarpal abnormalities with central polydactyly, and cerebellar dysgenesis.
otodental syndrome with coloboma	A contiguous gene syndrome comprising otodental syndrome (globodontia and sensorineural high-frequency hearing deficit) associated with eye abnormalities typically including iris and chorioretinal coloboma and sometimes microcornea, microphthalmos, lenticular opacity, lens coloboma and iris pigment epithelial atrophy.
capillary malformation of lower lip, lymphatic malformation of face and neck, asymmetry of face and limbs and overgrowth syndrome	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
capillary malformation of lower lip, lymphatic malformation of face and neck, asymmetry of face and limbs and overgrowth syndrome (disorder)	A syndrome consisting of capillary malformation of the lower lip (C), lymphatic malformation of the face and neck (L), asymmetry of face and limbs (A) and partial or generalized overgrowth (O). It has been described in six unrelated patients. Capillary malformation of the lower lip is observed in all patients. The overgrowth was noted at birth in three patients but was generalized in only one patient; it was partial in the other patients and involved one or more body segments. Inheritance of this association is not known.
microcephaly and spontaneous chromosome instability without immunodeficiency	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome characterised by growth retardation, short stature, developmental delay, intellectual disability, craniofacial dysmorphism (severe microcephaly, sloping forehead, prominent eyes, broad nasal ridge, hypoplastic nasal septum, epicanthal folds), spontaneous chromosomal instability, cellular hypersensitivity to ionising radiation and radioresistant DNA synthesis, without severe infections, immunodeficiency or cancer predisposition. Additional reported features include mild spasticity, slight and nonprogressive ataxia, hyperopia, multiple pigmented nevi, widely spaced nipples, and clinodactyly.
macrocephaly, alopecia, cutis laxa, scoliosis syndrome	A very rare inherited connective tissue disorder with characteristics of macrocephaly, sparse scalp hair, soft redundant and hyperextensible skin, joint hypermobility, and scoliosis. Patients have progressive facial coarsening with downslanted palpebral fissures, upper eyelid fullness/infraorbital folds, thick/everted vermillion, gingival overgrowth and abnormal position of the teeth. Rare manifestations such as abnormal high-pitched voice, bronchiectasis, hypergonadotropic hypergonadism and brachydactyly have also been reported. Caused by homozygous mutation in the RIN2 gene on chromosome 20p11.
hadziselimovic syndrome	A rare syndrome with characteristics of onset growth retardation (low birth weight and short stature), hypotonia, developmental delay and intellectual disability associated with microcephaly and craniofacial (low anterior hairline, hypotelorism, thick lips with carp-shaped mouth, high-arched palate, low-set ears), cardiac (conotruncal heart malformations such as tetralogy of Fallot and skeletal (hypoplastic thumbs and first metacarpals) abnormalities.
congenital lipomatous overgrowth, vascular malformations, and epidermal nevi syndrome	CLOVE syndrome has characteristics of congenital lipomatous overgrowth, progressive, complex and mixed truncal vascular malformations and epidermal nevi. To date, less than 15 cases have been reported in the literature. Patients also present with disproportionate fat distribution. CLOVE syndrome may be associated with varying degrees of scoliosis and enlarged bony structures without progressive bony overgrowth. The presence of scoliosis/skeletal manifestations has led to the suggestion that the acronym CLOVE should be expanded to CLOVES.
xpc	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the XPC gene. This disease is characterized by increased sensitivity to sunlight with the development of carcinomas at an early age and is caused by a defect in nucleotide excision repair.
cecoureterocele (diagnosis)	A ureterocele in which the orifice is located in the bladder, with the ureterocele pouch extending submucosally into the urethra.
cleft of alveolar ridge (disorder)	A gap (cleft) affecting one of the alveolar ridges, which are the protuberances in the mouth that contain the sockets (alveoli) of the teeth. An alveolar cleft can affect all structures of the alveolar ridge, including the gingiva, other mucosa, periosteum, alveolar bone, and teeth. [HPO:mengelstad, HPO:probinson]
humeroradial synostosis (disorder)	An abnormal osseous union (fusion) between the radius and the humerus. [HPO:sdoelken]
ramos arroyo syndrome	An extremely rare genetic disorder characterised by corneal anaesthesia, retinal abnormalities, bilateral hearing loss, distinct facies, patent ductus arteriosus, Hirschsprung disease, short stature and intellectual disability. The phenotype is variable. Some affected individuals have only mild disease manifestations. The aetiology of this syndrome is not yet known. Mutations in an as of yet unidentified gene, involved in autonomic nervous system function, are suspected. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, probably with variable expressivity.
al gazali aziz salem syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature, intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism, short webbed neck, skin changes and congenital heart defects. It has been reported in four Arab Bedouin siblings born to consanguineous parents.
short stature with webbed neck and congenital heart disease syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature, intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphism, short webbed neck, skin changes and congenital heart defects. It has been reported in four Arab Bedouin siblings born to consanguineous parents.
hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia halal type (disorder)	A form of ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of trichodysplasia, with absent eyebrows and eyelashes, onychodysplasia, mild retrognathia, abnormal dermatoglyphics (excess of whorls on fingertips, radial loop on finger, hypothenar pattern), intellectual disability and normal teeth and sweating. Additional variable manifestations include high implanted or prominent ears, mild hearing loss, supernumerary nipple, café-au-lait spots, keratosis pilaris, and irregular menses. To date, four individuals from 2 generations of a consanguineous family of Portuguese descent have been described in the literature. Males and females were equally affected. Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, Halal type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
microcephaly cleft palate autosomal dominant	This syndrome is characterized by the combination of microcephaly, cleft palate, and variable anomalies such as unusual facial appearance, hypotelorism, abnormal retinal pigmentation, maxillary hypoplasia, goiter, camptodactyly, mild intellectual deficit, and abnormal dermatoglyphics. It has been described only once; in two sisters and their mother. Although microcephaly and intellectual deficit are frequently associated with cleft palate, the other features of these patients are in favour of this syndrome being an entity per se. The mode of inheritance is autosomal or X-linked dominant.
nevi flammei, familial multiple	A rare genetic capillary malformation characterised by dark red to purple birthmarks which manifest as flat, sharply circumscribed cutaneous lesions, typically situated in the head and neck region, in various members of a single family. The lesions grow proportionally with the individual, change in colour and often thicken with age. There is evidence that congenital capillary malformations can be caused by somatic mosaic mutation in the GNAQ gene on chromosome 9q21.
rozin hertz goodman syndrome	The association of camptodactyly, multiple eye defects (fibrosis of the medial rectus muscle, severe myopia, ptosis and exophthalmos), scoliosis, flexion contractures and facial anomalies (arched eyebrows, facial asymmetry with an abnormal skull shape, a prominent nose, small mouth, low-set and dysplastic ears, and a low nuchal hairline). Only four cases have been reported in the literature so far. The mode of inheritance remains to be confirmed, but both autosomal dominant and recessive transmission have been considered.
familial caudal dysgenesis (disorder)	A clinical entity that can present as variable anomalies of the caudal pole. It has been described in four siblings and their father's half-sister. The first sibling had aberrant umbilical cord vasculature with a single umbilical artery near the placental insertion. Two of the siblings showed full sirenomelia, one with a complex congenital heart defect. The fourth case had an imperforate anus and an excessively long umbilical cord. The half-sister had an imperforate anus, rectovaginal fistula and genitourinary anomalies. The syndrome appears to be expressed as a dominant trait with reduced penetrance and variable expressivity.
pierre robin sequence with facial and digital anomalies	The association of Pierre Robin sequence (retrognathia, cleft palate and glossoptosis), facial dysmorphism (high forehead with frontal bossing) and digital anomalies (tapering fingers, hyper convex nails, clinodactyly of the fifth fingers and short distal phalanges, finger-like thumbs and easily subluxated first metacarpophalangeal joints). Growth and mental development are normal. It has been described in two half brothers born to the same mother. Transmission appears to be X-linked recessive.
hydrolethalus syndrome (disorder)	A severe fetal malformation syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial dysmorphic features, central nervous system, cardiac, respiratory tract and limb abnormalities. Mostly present in families of Finnish descent. The syndrome also has characteristics of postaxial and preaxial polydactyly. Caused by mutations in HYLS1 (11q24.2) and KIF7 (15q26.1). Inheritance is autosomal recessive. Stillbirth or neonatal death is the rule, although rare cases with several months' survival have been reported.
delayed speech & facial asymmetry w/ strabismus & ear lobe skin crease syndrome	This syndrome is extremely rare and has characteristics of delayed speech development, mild facial asymmetry, strabismus and transverse ear lobe creases. To date, six cases have been reported in five families. Dysmorphic features include asymmetrical face, unilateral narrow palpebral fissure, divergent strabismus, long philtrum, high-arched palate, apparently low-set ears and transverse ear lobe creases on both sides. Delayed language development is constant but intellectual development can be normal. In one family, the transmission was compatible with either autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inheritance.
microcephaly with cardiac defect and lung malsegmentation syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the combination of microcephaly, heart defects, renal hypoplasia, lung segmentation defects and cleft palate. It has been described in three female siblings. Dysmorphic features were not characteristic. The condition seems to be hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor and all children died in infancy.
microcephalus with cardiac defect and lung malsegmentation syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the combination of microcephaly, heart defects, renal hypoplasia, lung segmentation defects and cleft palate. It has been described in three female siblings. Dysmorphic features were not characteristic. The condition seems to be hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor and all children died in infancy.
radio renal syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of variable upper limb reduction defects and renal anomalies. Patients typically present absence/hypoplasia of digits, radii and/or ulnae, short stature and mild external ear malformation, as well as kidney agenesis or ectopia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1983.
viljoen kallis voges syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of profound intellectual deficit in association with microcephaly, short stature, brachydactyly type D, a flattened occiput, downslanting palpebral fissures, low-set large ears, a broad prominent nose and kyphoscoliosis. It has been described in three sisters. The disorder is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
hydrocephalus, costovertebral dysplasia, sprengel anomaly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has principal characteristics of by Sprengel anomaly (upward displacement of the scapula) and hydrocephaly. Other anomalies such as psychomotor retardation, psychosis, brachydactyly and costovertebral dysplasia may also be present. The syndrome has been described in eight female patients. The mode of transmission has not been firmly established but appears to be either autosomal or X-linked dominant.
microcephaly, hypogammaglobulinemia, abnormal immunity syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of unusual facial features, microcephaly, developmental delay, and severe postnatal growth retardation. It has been reported in two brothers born to normal parents. Additional features include hypogonadism, flexion contractures, hypoplastic patella, scoliosis, eczema and recurrent infections. The characteristic facies were marked by sloping forehead, beaked nose, large protruding ears and micrognathia. Low levels of serum gammaglobulins and defective chemotaxis were detected in both boys during infancy.
congenital testicular deficiency	This syndrome has characteristics of hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, intellectual deficit, and congenital skeletal anomalies involving the cervical spine and superior ribs, and diabetes mellitus. It has been described in two brothers. Testicular biopsy revealed germinal aplasia and complete seminiferous tubular fibrosis.
yorifuji okuno syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of partial pancreatic agenesis, diabetes mellitus, and heart anomalies (including transposition of the great vessels, ventricular or atrial septal defects, pulmonary stenosis, or patent ductus arteriosis). It has been described in one Japanese family, in which the mother and at least two of her four children were affected (another two children died shortly after birth). The syndrome appears to be inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
karandikar maria kamble syndrome	This syndrome has main feature of congenital cataracts with squint, intellectual deficit, anomalies of the genitourinary tract (rectovesical fistula, micropenis, undescended testis, and hypospadias), imperforate anus and other anomalies. It has been described in three siblings born to nonconsanguineous parents. It is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
kosztolanyi syndrome	A multiple congenital developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of arachnodactyly of fingers and toes associated with craniofacial dysmorphism (including abnormal cranial ossification, frontal bossing, flat calvaria, shallow deformed orbits resulting in exophthalmos, midface hypoplasia and micrognathia), feeding difficulties in infancy, infantile muscular hypotonia, and developmental delay leading to intellectual disability.
sacral meningocele conotruncal heart defects	Syndrome that is characterised by the association of conotruncal heart defects, myelomeningocoele and craniofacial dysmorphism similar to that seen in monosomy 22q11. Only five cases have been reported in the literature. The identification, by FISH, of 22q11.2 deletions in the majority of reported cases (including the original cases described by Kousseff) indicated that this syndrome is part of the variable clinical spectrum of monosomy 22q11. However, the absence of a 22q11.2 deletion in one patient suggests Kousseff syndrome to be a causally heterogeneous disorder.
mitral regurgitation, conductive deafness, and fusion of cervical vertebrae and of carpal and tarsal bones	This syndrome has characteristics of mitral insufficiency, conductive deafness, short stature, and skeletal anomalies (bony fusion involving the cervical vertebrae, the ossicles and the carpal and tarsal bones). It has been described in three members of one family. The mode of inheritance is likely to be autosomal dominant with incomplete penetrance.
neurofibromatosis noonan syndrome	A variant of neurofibromatosis type 1 characterised by the combination of features of neurofibromatosis type 1, such as café-au-lait spots, iris Lisch nodules, axillary and inguinal freckling, optic nerve glioma and multiple neurofibromas; and Noonan syndrome, with features such as short stature, typical facial features, congenital heart defects and unusual pectus deformity.
nfns	A variant of neurofibromatosis type 1 characterised by the combination of features of neurofibromatosis type 1, such as café-au-lait spots, iris Lisch nodules, axillary and inguinal freckling, optic nerve glioma and multiple neurofibromas; and Noonan syndrome, with features such as short stature, typical facial features, congenital heart defects and unusual pectus deformity.
trichodermodysplasia and dental alterations syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of sparse, thin brittle scalp hair as well as sparse eyebrows, eyelashes, axillary and pubic hair, delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions. Mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots on back, mild dystrophy of nails and tibial deflection of toes are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
pinheiro, freire maia, miranda syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of sparse, thin brittle scalp hair as well as sparse eyebrows, eyelashes, axillary and pubic hair, delayed eruption of deciduous teeth and hypodontia of both dentitions. Mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots on back, mild dystrophy of nails and tibial deflection of toes are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
autosomal recessive ectodermal dysplasia	A very rare genetic disorder characterized by cleft lip and palate, sparse scalp hair, and partial syndactyly of the fingers and toes.
bifid sternum	The sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum. [HPO:probinson]
multiple non-erupting teeth, maxillo-zygomatical hypoplasia and other congenital defects	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of multiple unerupted permanent teeth, hypoplasia of the alveolar process and of the maxillo-zygomatic region, severe genu valgum and deformed ears. Consanguinity in the family suggested autosomal recessive inheritance.
hyde forster mccarthy berry syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, brachycephaly, plagiocephaly, prominent forehead and coarse facial features. It has been described in two males from one family. Two females belonging to the same family displayed moderate intellectual deficit but no craniofacial dysmorphism.
intellectual disability, polydactyly, uncombable hair syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of intellectual disability, postaxial polydactyly, phalangeal hypoplasia, 2-3 toe syndactyly, uncombable hair and facial dysmorphism (including frontal bossing, hypotelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, nasal bridge and lips, prominent nasal root, large abnormal ears with prominent antihelix, poorly folded helix, underdeveloped lobule and antitragus, and micrognathia evolving into prognathism). Cryptorchidism, conductive hearing loss and progressive thoracic kyphosis were also reported.
epilepsy, microcephaly, skeletal dysplasia syndrome	Syndrome with the association of moderate to severe intellectual deficit, microcephaly, epilepsy, coarse face, hirsutism and skeletal abnormalities (scoliosis and retarded bone development). It has been described only once, in two siblings (one male and one female). This syndrome is likely to be an autosomal recessive condition and thus parents should be informed of a 25% risk of recurrence for other children.
caudal appendage deafness syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of caudal appendage, short terminal phalanges, deafness, cryptorchidism, intellectual deficit, short stature and dysmorphism. It has been described in monozygotic twin boys.
axial mesodermal dysplasia spectrum	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of congenital manifestations of both oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum and caudal regression sequence. Phenotype is highly variable but patients typically present facial dysmorphism (including asymmetry, hypertelorism), auricular abnormalities (for example preauricular tags, microtia, absence of middle ear ossicles), skeletal malformations (hemivertebrae, hip dislocation, sacral agenesis/dysplasia, talipes equinovarus, flexion deformity of lower limbs), cardiac defects (dextrocardia, septal defects), renal and genitourinary anomalies (such as renal agenesis/dysplasia, abnormal external genitalia) along with anal anomalies such as anal atresia and rectovesical fistula.
camptodactyly syndrome guadalajara type 2	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of distinctive intrauterine growth retardation, skeletal dysplasia with multiple malformations including camptodactyly of all fingers, bilateral hallux valgus, short second, fourth and fifth toes, hypoplastic patella, microcephaly, low-set ears, short neck, cuboid-shaped vertebral bodies, pectus excavatum, hip dislocation, and hypoplastic pubic region and genitalia. Described in two sisters there have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
frontofacionasal dysplasia syndrome	Rare disorder with features of multiple craniofacial anomalies; brachycephaly, blepharophimosis, ptosis, S-shaped palpebral fissures, coloboma, cleft lip and palate, deformed nostrils, encephalocele, hypertelorism, midface hypoplasia, malformed eyes, and absent inner eyelashes. The syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
hernández aguirre-negrete syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of major seizures, dysmorphic features (round face, bulbous nose, wide mouth, prominent philtrum), pes planus, psychomotor retardation and obesity. It has been described in five children (three boys and two girls, one of whom died in infancy) from two unrelated Mexican families.
contracture with ectodermal dysplasia and orofacial cleft syndrome (disorder)	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of severe arthrogryposis, multiple ectodermal dysplasia features, cleft lip/palate, facial dysmorphism, growth deficiency and a moderate delay of psychomotor development. Ectodermal dysplasia manifestations include sparse, brittle and hypopigmented hair, xerosis, multiple nevi, small conical shaped teeth and hypodontia, and facial dysmorphism with blepharophimosis, deep-set eyes and micrognathia.
mcpherson clemens syndrome	A multiple congenital anomaly syndrome described in 5 patients to date. Characteristics include flat face, hypertelorism, flat occiput, upward slanting palpebral fissures, cleft palate, micrognathia, short neck, and severe congenital heart defects, which were lethal in 3 of the 5 patients. Malrotation of the intestine, bilateral clinodactyly, bilobed tongue, short fourth metatarsals and bifid thumbs were reported in individual cases. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
ausems wittebol-post hennekam syndrome	An exceedingly rare association with characteristics of cleft lip and progressive retinopathy.
ffdd - focal facial dermal dysplasia	Focal facial dermal dysplasias (FFDD) are rare ectodermal dysplasias, with characteristics of congenital bitemporal (resembling forceps marks) or preauricular scar-like lesions associated with additional facial and or systematic manifestations. Four types of FFDD are described. Types II and III present with a variable facial dysmorphism including distichiasis (upper lashes) or lacking eyelashes, and upward slanting and thinned lateral eyebrows with a flattened nasal bridge and full upper lip. Types I and IV are infrequently associated with extra-cutaneous anomalies.
abnormal atrial arrangement (disorder)	Abnormality of the spatial relationship of the atria to other components of the heart. [DDD:dbrown]
warsaw breakage syndrome	A condition with multiple abnormalities including mild to severe intellectual disability, impaired growth from birth leading to short stature, and microcephaly. Affected individuals may also have distinctive facial features (including a small forehead, a short nose, a small lower jaw, a flat area between the nose and mouth (philtrum), and prominent cheeks), sensorineural hearing loss, and heart malformations
mammary digital nail syndrome (disorder)	A syndromic limb malformation characterised by congenital onychodystrophy/anonychia, brachydactyly of the fifth finger, digitalisation of the thumbs, with absence or hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the hands and feet in association with juvenile hypertrophy of the breast with gigantomastia in peripubertal females.
atrial heterotaxy	Common atrium without defining morphologic features. [DDD:dbrown]
supracristal ventricular septal defect	A ventricular septal defect that lies beneath the semilunar valve(s) in the conal or outlet septum. [DDD:dbrown, PMID:10798413]
congenital iodine deficiency syndrome	Thyroid hormone deficiency present at birth and caused by iodine deficiency.
osteopetrosis, autosomal dominant, type ii	A sclerosing disorder of the skeleton with increased bone density that classically displays the radiographic sign of ''sandwich vertebrae'' (dense bands of sclerosis parallel to the vertebral endplates). Onset of the disease is typically in late childhood or adolescence. The main manifestations are confined to the skeleton, including fractures, scoliosis, hip osteoarthritis and osteomyelitis, particularly affecting the mandible in association with dental abscess or caries. The disease is caused by heterozygous mutations in the chloride channel 7 (ClCN7) gene (16p13).
familial keratoconus with cataract	A very rare eye disorder representing a constellation of autosomal dominantly inherited ocular findings, including early-onset or congenital cataracts, corneal stromal thinning, early-onset keratoconus, corneal endothelial dystrophy and iris hypoplasia. There is evidence this syndrome is caused by heterozygous mutation in the MIR184 gene on chromosome 15q25.
microcephaly, cerebellar hypoplasia, and cardiac conduction defect syndrome	A rare genetic congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome characterized by growth failure, global developmental delay, profound intellectual disability, autistic behavior, acquired second-degree heart block with bradycardia and vasomotor instability. Hands and feet present with long fusiform fingers, campto-clinodactyly and crowded toes while craniofacial dysmorphism includes microcephaly, broad forehead, thin eyebrows, upslanting palpebral fissures, large ears with prominent antihelix, prominent nose, long philtrum, thin upper lip vermillion and prominent lower lip. Neurological signs include hypotonia, brisk reflexes, dystonic-like movements and truncal ataxia and imaging shows cerebellar hypoplasia and simplified gyral pattern.
patent ductus arteriosus - persisting type	abnormal persistence of an open lumen in the ductus arteriosus after birth, the direction of flow being from the aorta to the pulmonary artery, resulting in recirculation of arterial blood through the lungs.
anomaly, anorectal	An abnormality of the anus or rectum. [HPO:probinson]
anomalous origin of the left common carotid artery from the brachiocephalic artery	The left common carotid artery normally originates from the aortic arch. This term refers to an origin of this artery from the brachiocephalic artery. [PMID:18694519]
thoracic myelomeningocele	A congenital abnormality in the thoracic region of the spine, in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
cervical meningomyelocele (diagnosis)	A congenital abnormality in the cervical region of the spine in which the spinal cord and meninges protrude through a defect in the spinal column. The protrusion is above the skin surface.
sotos syndrome 2	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterized by moderate postnatal overgrowth, macrocephaly, craniofacial dysmorphism (including high forehead and anterior hairline, downslanting palpebral fissures, prominent chin), developmental delay, and intellectual disability. Additional variable manifestations include unusual behavior, with or without autistic traits, as well as ocular (e.g. strabismus, nystagmus, optic disc pallor/hypoplasia), gastrointestinal (e.g. vomiting, chronic diarrhea, constipation), musculoskeletal (e.g. scoliosis and pectus excavatum), hand/foot (e.g. long, tapered fingers) and central nervous system (e.g. slightly enlarged ventricles) anomalies. The disease is caused by heterozygous mutation in the NFIX gene on chromosome 19p13.
dysmorphism, conductive hearing loss, heart defect syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of distinctive facial appearance (low frontal hairline, bilateral ptosis, prominent eyes, flat midface, broad, ﬂat nares, Cupid's bow upper lip vermilion and small, low-set, posteriorly rotated ears), cleft palate, conductive hearing loss, heart defects (atrial or ventricular septal defect) and mild developmental delay/intellectual disability.
trisomy xq28	Las duplicaciones distales deXq se refieren a trastornos cromosómicos producidos por el compromiso del brazo largo del cromosoma X (Xq). Las manifestaciones clínicas varían ampliamente según el género del paciente y el contenido genético del segmento duplicado. Las duplicaciones distales informadas con mayor frecuencia afectan al segmento Xq28 y producen un fenotipo que incluye características faciales distintivas, hipotonía axial mayor, retraso del desarrollo severo, dificultades alimentarias severas, genitales anormales y susceptibilidad a las infecciones. Las duplicaciones Xq pueden ser causadas por una duplicación intracromosómica o por una translocación X/Y o X/autosoma desbalanceada.
palmoplantar keratoderma, nagashima type	This disease is a non-syndromic diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma resembling a mild form of mal de Meleda. So far, it has been described in 20 individuals.Transmission is autosomal recessive. Evidence suggests this disease is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the SERPINB7 gene on chromosome 18q21.
congenital positive ulnar variant of wrist	Condition where the ulna projects more distally relative to the radius.
postaxial polydactyly type a (disorder)	Supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand with a complete extra finger and extra metacarpal. [HPO:probinson]
activity dependent neuroprotector homeobox related multiple congenital anomalies, intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder	Syndrome with a wide variety of signs and symptoms, hallmark features are intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder, distinctive facial features and abnormalities of multiple body systems. Present in some cases are hypotonia, feeding difficulties in infancy, gastroesophageal reflux, vomiting, and constipation. Other features include obesity, seizures, and heart abnormalities. Caused by mutations in the ADNP gene, the protein produced from this gene helps control expression of other genes through chromatin remodeling. Disturbance of this process alters the activity of many genes and disrupts development or function of several of the body's tissues and organs, including the brain. The syndrome results from de novo mutations in the ADNP gene and is not inherited.
dnmt3a-related overgrowth syndrome	A disease associated with faster than normal growth before and after birth, intellectual disability, characteristic facial features including round face, thick horizontal eyebrows, narrowed palpebral fissures. Macrocephaly may also be present along with features of autism spectrum disorder. Other associated signs include kyphoscoliosis, heart defects, pes planus, hypotonia, hypermobile joints depression, anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder. Caused by mutation in the DNMT3A gene, which provides instructions for making the enzyme DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, however some cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
ptbhs	A rare neuro-ophthalmological disease with characteristics of nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia, delayed motor and language development and intellectual disability in addition to ophthalmological abnormalities (e.g. oculomotor apraxia, strabismus, amblyopia, retinal dystrophy and myopia). Cerebellar cysts, cerebellar dysplasia and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, seen on magnetic resonance imaging, are also characteristic of the disease. Caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the LAMA1 gene on chromosome 18p11.
ectodermal dysplasia/short stature syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by short stature, nail dystrophy and/or nail loss, oral mucosa and/or tongue hyperpigmentation, dentition abnormalities (delayed teeth eruption, hypodontia, enamel hypoplasia), keratoderma on the margins of the palms and soles and focal hyperkeratosis on the dorsum of the hands and feet. Additionally, dysphagia with oesophageal strictures, sensorineural deafness, bronchial asthma and severe iron-deficiency anaemia have also been observed.
neonatal marfan syndrome (disorder)	A rare severe and life-threatening genetic disease occurring during the neonatal period. The disease has characteristics of classical Marfan syndrome manifestations in addition to facial dysmorphism (megalocornea, iridodonesis, ectopia lentis, crumpled ears, loose redundant skin giving a 'senile' facial appearance), flexion joint contractures, pulmonary emphysema and a severe, rapidly progressive cardiovascular disease (including ascending aortic dilatation and severe mitral and/or tricuspid valve insufficiency). Additionally, skeletal manifestations (arachnodactyly, dolichostenomelia, pectus deformities) are also associated.
congenital conductive hearing impairment	A type of conductive deafness with congenital onset. [HPO:probinson]
unilateral polymicrogyria (disorder)	Excessive number of small gyri (convolutions) on the surface of one side of the brain. [HPO:probinson]
diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma of thost-unna	An autosomally dominant inherited form of palmoplantar keratoderma that is characterized by a non-gradient diffuse pattern and often, hyperhidrosis of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It does not extend beyond the palms, knucklels pads, nails, and the soles.
hypoplastic anterior pituitary, missing stalk, and ectopic posterior pituitary	A syndrome characterized by hypoplastic or aplastic anterior pituitary gland, a very thin or interrupted pituitary stalk, and ectopic or absent posterior pituitary gland, which may be associated with mutation(s) in the HESX1 or LHX4 genes.
chromosome 10p duplication syndrome	A syndrome of mental retardation/multiple congenital malformations that is caused by the total or partial duplication of the short arm of chromosome 10. Around 50 cases have been described in the literature. The anomalies are present at birth. Children are usually dolichocephalic with a high and prominent forehead, contrasting with a small face. Osteoarticular anomalies are frequent, including ligament hyperlaxity, flexion deformations of limbs, and club feet. Cardiac, renal, ocular and bone malformations have been reported. The majority of cases are a result of the malsegregation of a familial balanced translocation. The most frequent break point is located at the level of p11 band, but it can be more distal and result in partial trisomy.
chops syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital abnormalities, intellectual disability and delayed development of skills such as sitting and walking. Characteristic facial features include a round face, thick hair, synophrys, wide-set, bulging eyes with long eyelashes, a short nose and down-turned corners of the mouth. Patent ductus arteriosus is present in most cases. Obstructive sleep apnea is a common feature. Cases are usually shorter than more than 97 percent of their peers and are overweight for their height. Other features include microcephaly, hearing loss, cataract, single horseshoe-shaped kidney and cryptorchidism. Caused by mutations in the AFF4 gene thought to result in excessive AFF4 protein, which interferes with normal pauses in transcription.
branchio-otic syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of second branchial arch anomalies (branchial cysts and fistulae), malformations of the outer, middle and inner ear associated with sensorineural, mixed or conductive hearing loss and the absence of renal abnormalities. Typical ear findings consist of malformed auricles (lop or cupped ears), preauricular pits and/or tags, and middle and/or inner ear dysplasias (including cochlear, vestibular and semicircular channel hypoplasia, malformation of the ossicles and of middle ear space).
branchiootic dysplasia	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of second branchial arch anomalies (branchial cysts and fistulae), malformations of the outer, middle and inner ear associated with sensorineural, mixed or conductive hearing loss and the absence of renal abnormalities. Typical ear findings consist of malformed auricles (lop or cupped ears), preauricular pits and/or tags, and middle and/or inner ear dysplasias (including cochlear, vestibular and semicircular channel hypoplasia, malformation of the ossicles and of middle ear space).
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1b (disorder)	Autosomal dominant limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B (LGMD1B) is a laminopathy with characteristics of progressive limb girdle weakness, usually affecting the pelvic girdle before humeral muscles, mild joint contractures and age-related atrioventricular cardiac conduction disturbances. Dilated cardiomyopathy is frequently associated.
fetal iodine syndrome	Fetal iodine syndrome is a group of symptoms that may be observed in a fetus or newborn when the mother was exposed during pregnancy to inappropriate (excessive or insufficient) amounts of iodine, a nonmetallic halogen element. Maternal iodine can be readily transferred to the fetus, and chronic maternal exposure to iodine can lead to hypothyroidism and goitre in the offspring. The majority of the reported fatalities caused by iodine intoxication resulted from the use of iodine-containing expectorants during pregnancy. Based on these observations, the repeated or routine use of iodine-containing products is not recommended during pregnancy. In addition to the problems associated with iodine intoxication, iodine deficiency during pregnancy may be severe enough to produce hypothyroidism in the fetus.
syndromic hypoplasia of orbital border (disorder)	Syndromic orbital border hypoplasia is a rare disorder observed in two families to date with characteristics of agenesis of the orbital margin, varying defects of the lacrimal passages, hypoplasia of the palpebral skin and tarsal plates and atresia of the nasolacrimal duct.
x-linked reticulate pigmentary disorder with systemic manifestation syndrome	An extremely rare skin disease described in only four families to date and characterised in males by diffuse reticulate brown hyperpigmented skin lesions developing in early childhood and a variety of systemic manifestations (recurrent pneumonia, corneal opacification, gastrointestinal inflammation, urethral stricture, failure to thrive, hypohidrosis, digital clubbing, and unruly hair and flared eyebrows), while in females, there is only cutaneous involvement with the development in early childhood of localised brown hyperpigmented skin lesions following the lines of Blaschko. This disease was first considered as a cutaneous amyloidosis, but amyloid deposits are an inconstant feature.
syndromic recessive x-linked ichthyosis (disorder)	Refers to cases of recessive X-linked ichthyosis (RXLI) that are associated with extracutaneous manifestations as part of a syndrome. It affects almost exclusively males. Cutaneous manifestations include hyperkeratosis and scaling of the skin. Non cutaneous manifestations may be corneal opacity, late puberty, cryptorchidism and a higher frequency of testicular cancer. Manifestations due to contiguous gene syndrome include neurological abnormalities such as epilepsy and hyposmia, intellectual deficit and/or short stature. Transmission is X-linked recessive.
mona (multicentric osteolysis nodulosis arthropathy) spectrum	A rare genetic chronic skeletal disorder with characteristics of peripheral osteolysis, interphalangeal joint erosions, subcutaneous fibrocollagenous nodules, facial dysmorphism, and a wide range of associated manifestations. The prevalence and incidence of MONA are not known. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported worldwide. MONA spectrum disorders are caused by mutations in the MMP2 gene (16q13-q21) or MMP14 gene (14q11-q12). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Many cases are reported in children from consanguineous unions.
multicentric osteolysis nodulosis arthropathy spectrum (disorder)	A rare genetic chronic skeletal disorder with characteristics of peripheral osteolysis, interphalangeal joint erosions, subcutaneous fibrocollagenous nodules, facial dysmorphism, and a wide range of associated manifestations. The prevalence and incidence of MONA are not known. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported worldwide. MONA spectrum disorders are caused by mutations in the MMP2 gene (16q13-q21) or MMP14 gene (14q11-q12). Follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Many cases are reported in children from consanguineous unions.
familial penile hypospadias	The displacement of the urethral meatus on the ventrum of the penis. This abnormality is associated with a varyingly bent, twisted penis and opened dorsal prepuce. This congenital malformation is not rare, with an estimated prevalence of 1/1000 births but familial forms account for only 10% of cases. Hypospadias is clinically more or less severe depending on the location of the urethral opening. Familial forms are identified by determining the medical history of the family.
ischio-vertebral syndrome	Very rare poorly-defined bone disease with manifestation of ischial aplasia or hypoplasia, vertebral anomalies (vertebral malsegmentation, kyphoscoliosis), and in some patients, non-distinctive facial dysmorphism.
short stature and deafness with neutrophil dysfunction and facial dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of short stature, sensorineural deafness, mutism, facial dysmorphism and abnormal neutrophil chemotaxis (leading to recurrent infections). It has been described in two siblings.
osteoporosis and macrocephaly with blindness and joint hypermobility syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of osteoporosis, macrocephalus, brachytelephalangy, and hyperextensibility of the joints. Congenital amaurosis and intellectual deficit have also been reported. This syndrome has been described in three members of one family.
morse rawnsley sargent syndrome	An extremely rare fatal central nervous system malformation occurring during embryogenesis presenting prenatally on the ultrasound with holoprosencephaly and fetal hypokinesia as major features. Other manifestations include microcephaly, multiple contractures, intrauterine growth restriction. An X-linked recessive inheritance has been suggested.
limb body wall complex (disorder)	Limb body wall complex (LBWC) is a syndrome with features of severe multiple congenital anomalies. Clinical manifestations vary widely and include limb defects and visceral malformations, spinal abnormalities, absent diaphragm, bowel atresia and renal agenesis. Karyotypes have been reported as normal and no correlations with gender, parental age and teratogenic agents have been found. The principal theories are an extrinsic origin by early amniotic rupture, or a vascular origin due to an early vascular accident during embryological development. Single cases of familial occurrence have been documented. LBWC is fatal, with death occurring antenatally or early in the neonatal period.
hypospadias and intellectual disability syndrome goldblatt type (disorder)	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in three brothers of one South-African family, and with features of hypospadias and intellectual deficit, in association with microcephaly, craniofacial dysmorphism, joint laxity and beaked nails
cleft palate and cleft lip with deafness and sacral lipoma syndrome	This syndrome is characterised by cleft lip and palate, profound sensorineural deafness and a sacral lipoma. It has been described in two brothers of Chinese origin born to non-consanguineous parents. Additional findings include appendages on the heel and thigh, or anterior sacral meningocoele and dislocated hip. The mode of inheritance is probably autosomal or X-linked recessive.
wellesley carman french syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by cataracts and short stature associated with variable anomalies, including aberrant oral frenula, a characteristic facial appearance (posteriorly angulated ears, upslanting palpebral fissures, small nose, ptosis and epicanthal folds) cavernous haemangiomas and hernias. It has been described in a mother and her two children. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
x-linked lissencephaly type 1	A semi-dominant X-linked disease with intellectual deficiency and seizures that is more severe in male patients. Boys presenting with lissencephaly show an abnormally thick cortex with very few gyri (pachygyria) or even none (agyria). Clinical manifestations include swallowing and feeding difficulties, abnormal muscular tone, seizures and severe to profound psychomotor retardation. Female patients display a less severe malformation referred to as ''doublecortex'' or subcortical laminar heterotopia and present with clinical signs of variable severity ranging from mild epilepsy to refractory epileptic seizures and severe intellectual deficiency. The condition is caused by doublecortin (DCX, located at Xq22.3-q23) gene mutations.
petit fryns syndrome	Rare disorder with features of severe resorption of the hands and feet and absence of the distal and middle phalanges. Other manifestations include distal muscular hypertrophy, flexion contractures, short stature, mild intellectual deficit and characteristic facies (maxillary hypoplasia, exophthalmos, and a broad nasal tip). It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
fetal indomethacin syndrome	A group of symptoms which may be observed in the fetus or newborn when the mother has taken indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug during pregnancy. The drug crosses the human placenta readily throughout gestation, but its effects on the embryo/fetus vary according to the stage of pregnancy.
congenital muscular dystrophy with infantile cataract and hypogonadism syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome is characterised by congenital muscular dystrophy, infantile cataract and hypogonadism. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
fetal varicella syndrome (diagnosis)	Acquired developmental anomaly syndrome characterized by skin, neural, ocular, limbs and growth defects secondary to Varicella-Zoster virus infection.
phenobarbital embryopathy	A teratogenic disorder associated with intrauterine exposure to phenobarbital during the first trimester of pregnancy. Infants are usually asymptomatic but at an increased risk of intellectual disability, tetralogy of Fallot, unilateral cleft lip, hypoplasia of the mitral valve and some other mild abnormalities such as hypertelorism.
nails only deb (dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa)	A rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa that shows no blistering and that has characteristics of dystrophic or absent nails. Prevalence is unknown. Approximately ten families have been reported to date. However, this variant may be overlooked because of negligible clinical implications. Onset is usually at birth or during infancy. Except from nail involvement, no other cutaneous or extracutaneous symptoms are observed. Nail deformity is often limited to toenails that can appear thickened and shortened. Caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). It usually follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. One family with an autosomal recessive inheritance has also been reported.
wunderlich syndrome	A rare congenital urogenital anomaly characterised by the presence of double uterus (didelphys, bicornuate or septum-complete or partial), unilateral cervico-vaginal obstruction and ipsilateral renal anomalies (renal agenesis and/or other urinary tract anomalies). Patients are usually diagnosed at puberty after menarche due to recurrent severe dysmenorrhoea, chronic pelvic pain, excessive foul smelling mucopurulent discharge, spotting and intermenstrual bleeding (depending on the existence of uterine or vaginal communications). Fever, dyspareunia, and a palpable abdominal, pelvic or vaginal mass (mucocolpos or pyocolpos) may also be present.
herlyn werner syndrome	A rare congenital urogenital anomaly characterised by the presence of double uterus (didelphys, bicornuate or septum-complete or partial), unilateral cervico-vaginal obstruction and ipsilateral renal anomalies (renal agenesis and/or other urinary tract anomalies). Patients are usually diagnosed at puberty after menarche due to recurrent severe dysmenorrhoea, chronic pelvic pain, excessive foul smelling mucopurulent discharge, spotting and intermenstrual bleeding (depending on the existence of uterine or vaginal communications). Fever, dyspareunia, and a palpable abdominal, pelvic or vaginal mass (mucocolpos or pyocolpos) may also be present.
congenital hereditary facial palsy with variable deafness	An extremely rare autosomal recessive disorder with characteristics of bilateral facial palsy with masked facies, sensorineural hearing loss, dysmorphic features (midfacial retrusion, low-set ears) and strabismus.
autism spectrum disorder facial port-wine stain syndrome	Syndrome marked by the presence of a unilateral angioma on the face and autistic developmental problems with characteristics of language delay and atypical social interactions. So far, the syndrome has been described in four children.
auriculoocular anomaly and cleft lip syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of auricular abnormalities and cleft lip with or without cleft palate. Only two cases have been reported in the literature. One of these cases also presented with myopia, nystagmus and retinal pigment abnormalities.
alar cartilage hypoplasia, coloboma, telecanthus syndrome	A very rare dysmorphic disorder with characteristics of hypoplasia and coloboma of the alar cartilages and telecanthus described in 2 sisters. No new cases with similar features have been reported since 1976.
severe x-linked intellectual disability gustavson type (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of X-linked mental retardation, microcephaly, optical atrophy with impaired vision or blindness, a severe hearing defect, facial dysmorphology, spasticity, epileptic seizures and restricted joint movement. It has been described in seven children from two generations of a Swedish family. All patients died in during early childhood.
patent ductus arteriosus, bicuspid aortic valve, hand anomaly syndrome	A very rare heart-hand syndrome that has characteristics of a variety of cardiovascular anomalies including patent arterial duct, bicuspid aortic valve and pseudocoarctation of the aorta in conjunction with hand anomalies such as brachydactyly and ulnar ray derivative i.e. fifth metacarpal hypoplasia. Transmission is most likely autosomal dominant although X-linked dominance could not be excluded.
palmoplantar keratoderma, 46,xx sex reversal, predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of sex reversal in males with a 46, XX (SRY-negative) karyotype, palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and a predisposition to squamous cell carcinoma. To date, five cases (four of whom were brothers) have been described.
overgrowth, macrocephaly, facial dysmorphism syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of tall stature, learning difficulties and facial dysmorphism. So far, it has been described in six families. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the RNF135 (ring finger protein 135) gene.
osteosclerosis, ichthyosis, premature ovarian failure syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of sclerosing bone dysplasia, ichthyosis vulgaris and premature ovarian failure. The bone disorder affects all metaphyseal-diaphyseal regions of the long bones, the skull, and the metacarpals. It has been described in three adult sisters presenting with swelling of the limbs and occasional mild pain in the legs.
osteosclerosis, developmental delay, craniosynostosis syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of osteosclerosis, developmental delay and craniosynostosis. It has been reported in 13 patients from a four-generation family. Osteosclerosis was constant and most pronounced in the cranial base and calvarium. Craniosynostosis was reported in four patients and a mild developmental delay in three patients. Dysmorphic features were constant and included macrocephaly, brachycephaly, wide and high forehead, hypertelorism, prominent cheekbones and prominent jaw. A missense mutation A214T in the low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 5 gene.
osteopenia, myopia, hearing loss, intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of severe hypertelorism, brachycephaly, abnormal ears, sloping shoulders, enamel hypoplasia, osteopenia with frequent fractures, severe myopia, mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit. It has been described in two brothers born to first-cousin parents. No chromosomal anomalies were detected. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive or X-linked.
orofaciodigital syndrome edwards type	Syndrome with characteristics of tongue lobulation, hypoplasia of the epiglottis, median cleft upper lip, broad or bifid nasal tip, hypertelorism or telecanthus, bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly, abnormal tibia and/or radius, duplication of the halluces, short stature and mild intellectual deficit. The syndrome has been described in one family with four affected males in three generations. Increased susceptibility to respiratory infections has been noted. X-linked recessive transmission has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 8	Syndrome with characteristics of tongue lobulation, hypoplasia of the epiglottis, median cleft upper lip, broad or bifid nasal tip, hypertelorism or telecanthus, bilateral preaxial and postaxial polydactyly, abnormal tibia and/or radius, duplication of the halluces, short stature and mild intellectual deficit. The syndrome has been described in one family with four affected males in three generations. Increased susceptibility to respiratory infections has been noted. X-linked recessive transmission has been suggested, but the causative gene has not yet been identified.
kallman syndrome with heart disease	Syndrome with characteristics of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) deficiency, anosmia or hyposmia (with hypoplasia or aplasia of the olfactory bulbs) and complex congenital cardiac malformations (double-outlet right ventricle, dilated cardiomyopathy, right aortic arch). It represents a distinct clinical entity from Kallmann syndrome. Less than 10 cases have been described so far.
lung agenesis with heart defect and thumb anomaly syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of unilateral complete or partial lung agenesis, congenital cardiac defects and ipsilateral thumb anomalies. It has been described in 7 patients. Cardiac abnormalities are variable and mainly consist of atrial septal defect, anomalous pulmonary venous return or patent ductus arteriosus. Thumb anomalies include triphalangeal, proximally placed, hypoplastic or reduplicated thumb. One patient had a preaxial polydactyly with a rudimentary thumb. Other malformations can be also observed. The affected patients have normal intellectual development.
lung fibrosis, immunodeficiency, 46,xx gonadal dysgenesis syndrome (diagnosis)	This syndrome is characterized by immune deficiency, gonadal dysgenesis and fatal lung fibrosis. So far, it has been described in two sisters born to consanguineous parents. Both karyotypes were normal female (46,XX). No genetic anomalies could be identified by comparative genome hybridization analysis of their genomes or by analysis of genes known to be associated with these types of anomalies.
microphthalmia with brain and digit anomaly (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of anophthalmia or microphthalmia, retinal dystrophy, and/or myopia, associated in some cases with cerebral anomalies. It has been described in two families. Polydactyly may also be present. Linkage analysis allowed identification of mutations in the BMP4 gene, which has already been shown to play a role in eye development.
hypertrichosis and acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome (disorder)	A very rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome manifesting from birth with progressive hypertrichosis congenita terminalis (thick scalp hair extending onto the forehead with generalized increased body hair) associated with a typical acromegaloid facial appearance (thick eyebrows, prominent supraorbital ridges, broad nasal bridge, anteverted nares, long and large philtrum, and prominent mouth with full lips) appearing during childhood.
hypertrichosis and acromegaloid facial appearance syndrome	A very rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome manifesting from birth with progressive hypertrichosis congenita terminalis (thick scalp hair extending onto the forehead with generalized increased body hair) associated with a typical acromegaloid facial appearance (thick eyebrows, prominent supraorbital ridges, broad nasal bridge, anteverted nares, long and large philtrum, and prominent mouth with full lips) appearing during childhood.
goossens devriendt syndrome	Goossens-Devriendt syndrome has characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, a congenital heart defect, postaxial polydactyly, brain malformation, abnormal hair with temporal balding and marked facial dysmorphism. It has been reported in two siblings from unrelated parents. One of the siblings died and the surviving patient showed postnatal growth retardation and severe developmental delay.
glossopalatine ankylosis	A disorder belonging to the group of oromandibular-limb hypogenesis syndromes with the presence of an intraoral band of variable thickness attaching the tongue to the hard palate or maxillary alveolar ridge. The syndrome is very rare with less than 30 cases reported in the literature so far. Associated anomalies include cleft palate (in which case the tongue may be attached to the nasal septum), mandibular hypoplasia, upper-lip hypoplasia, hypodontia and variable limb anomalies (oligodactyly, syndactyly and polydactyly as well as more severe limb malformations). The syndrome appears to be sporadic.
global developmental delay, osteopenia, ectodermal defect syndrome	This syndrome is characterised by the association of global developmental delay, osteopenia and skin anomalies. To date, only three cases (two brothers and one unrelated girl) have been reported. Central nervous system anomalies manifest as poor language skills, inappropriate behaviour (temper tantrums, aggressiveness), concentration and attention span difficulties and impulsiveness. Intellectual deficit was reported in two out of the three cases. Skin anomalies were hyperkeratosis, granular layer thickening, and sweat gland and melanocyte abnormalities.
dermo-odonto dysplasia	Dermo-odonto dysplasia belongs to the group of tricho-odonto-onychial dysplasia. It has signs of variable severity: dry and thin skin, dental anomalies, nail alteration and trichodysplasia.
dentinogenesis imperfecta, short stature, hearing loss, intellectual disability syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of dentinogenesis imperfecta, delayed tooth eruption, facial dysmorphism, small stature, sensorineural hearing loss and mild intellectual deficit. It has been described in two brothers born to consanguineous parents. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
deafness and intellectual disability martin probst type syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of severe bilateral deafness, intellectual deficit, umbilical hernia and abnormal dermatoglyphics. It has been described in three males from three generations of one family. Mild facial dysmorphism (telangiectasias, hypertelorism, dental anomalies and a wide nasal root) was also present. Short stature, pancytopenia, microcephaly and renal and genitourinary anomalies were present in some of the patients. The mode of transmission is X-linked recessive and the causative gene is q1-21 region of the X chromosome.
thoracic insufficiency syndrome (disorder)	Thoracic insufficiency syndrome is a complex condition involving congenital chest wall deformities that affect normal breathing and lung growth. It results from serious defects affecting the ribs or chest wall, such as severe scoliosis or rib fusion, and various hypoplastic thorax syndromes such as Jeune Syndrome and Jarcho-Levin syndrome.
anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, immunodeficiency, osteopetrosis, lymphedema syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by severe immunodeficiency, osteopetrosis, lymphedema and anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. It has been described in a few unrelated male patients born to mothers with mild incontinentia pigmenti. The first two reported children died before three years of age from multiple infections with Gram-positive cocci, Gram-negative bacilli, mycobacteria, and fungi. The syndrome is classified as a X-linked osteopetrosis and is caused by mutations in the IKBKG (NEMO) gene (Xq28).
amaurosis hypertrichosis syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of severe retinal dystrophy marked by visual impairment and profound photophobia without night blindness. Eye examination suggested a cone-rod type of congenital amaurosis. Trichomegaly, bushy eyebrows with synophrys and excessive facial and body hair were also reported. The syndrome has been described in two female cousins both born to consanguineous parents.
fibular dimelia diplopodia syndrome	Fibular dimelia accompanied by complete tibial agenesis and mirror polydactyly or foot duplication is a rare developmental anomaly reported in at least 11 cases. It can be isolated or associated with ulnar dimelia, facial abnormalities and sacrococcygeal teratoma. The cause is unknown, but has been suggested that a teratogenic event occurs as developmental specification reaches the level of the future knee. A central role for the mesenchymal precursor, from which chondro-osseous morphology emerges, has also been suggested. Treatment is surgical and prosthesis is needed in order to improve the quality of life of affected children.
severe combined immunodeficiency due to nhej1 deficiency	A rare form of combined immunodeficiency with characteristics of microcephaly, growth retardation and T and B cell lymphopenia. Patients present in childhood with growth retardation, microcephaly, urogenital and bone malformations, dysmorphic features, including ''bird-like'' facial dysmorphism, and features of combined immunodeficiency. Some patients may also present with autoimmune cytopenia. This disease is caused by mutations in the NHEJ1 (or Cernunos) gene (2q35). The resulting defect of Cernunnos/XLF, a core protein of the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) pathway, affects the major mechanism of DNA double-strand break repair. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
cervical hypertrichosis and peripheral neuropathy syndrome	A rare syndrome with the association of congenital hypertrichosis in the anterior cervical region, peripheral sensory and motor neuropathy. It has been described in three members of the same family and in one unrelated boy. Associated features in the familial cases include retinal anomalies, spina bifida, kyphoscoliosis and hallux valgus, while that in the non-familial case includes developmental delay. An autosomal recessive mode of inheritance is suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
craniosynostosis and intracranial calcification syndrome (disorder)	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of craniosynostosis, mild facial dysmorphism (prominent supraorbital ridges, mild proptosis and maxillary hypoplasia) and calcification of the basal ganglia. The disease is associated with a favorable neurological outcome, normal intelligence and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
craniofacial ulnar renal syndrome	A rare developmental disorder, that unifies the overlapping autosomal recessive disorders previously known as Carnevale, Mingarelli, Malpuech and Michels syndromes. The syndrome has characteristics of a spectrum of developmental anomalies that include distinctive facial dysmorphism, cleft lip and/or palate, craniosynostosis, learning disability, radioulnar synostosis and genital and vesicorenal anomalies. Less common features reported include anterior chamber defects, cardiac anomalies, caudal appendage, umbilical hernia/omphalocele and diastasis recti.
craniofacial conodysplasia syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of craniofacial dysplasia, cone-shaped physes of the hands and feet and neurological manifestations resembling cerebral palsy. It has been described in one family. The syndrome appeared to be transmitted as a dominant trait.
pascual castroviejo syndrome type 1	A rare syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism, intellectual deficit and costovertebral abnormalities. To date, 13 cases have been reported in the literature. Dysmorphic features include brachycephaly, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, large philtrum, triangular-shaped mouth and micrognathia. There is often synophrys and a low hairline on the back. Costovertebral abnormalities are always present: short, bifid or fused ribs, bony bridges joining the posterior arches in some ribs, hemi vertebrae. Intellectual deficit is constant but the severity varies and patients also have cerebral abnormalities: cortical atrophy, hypoplasia of the corpus callosum and cerebellar vermis.
cerebellar ataxia, areflexia, pes cavus, optic atrophy, sensorineural hearing loss syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant neurological disorder with characteristics of early onset cerebellar ataxia, associated with areflexia, progressive optic atrophy, sensorineural deafness, a pes cavus deformity and abnormal eye movements.
cardiomyopathy and renal anomaly syndrome (disorder)	The association of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with variable malformations of the urogenital tract. To date, it has been described in two brothers born to nonconsanguineous parents. One of the brothers also had dysgenesis of the corpus callosum. The mode of transmission is unknown but may be X-linked or autosomal recessive.
camptodactyly and tall stature with scoliosis and hearing loss syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of camptodactyly, tall stature, scoliosis, and hearing loss (CATSHL). It has been described in around 30 individuals from seven generations of the same family. The syndrome is caused by a missense mutation in the FGFR3 gene, leading to a partial loss of function of the encoded protein, which is a negative regulator of bone growth.
brachytelephalangy, facial dysmorphism, kallmann syndrome	A developmental anomaly with characteristics of brachytelephalangy, distinct craniofacial features (prominent square forehead, telecanthus, small nose, malar hypoplasia, smooth philtrum and thin upper lip), and relative to other family members, a short stature. These features may be associated with anosmia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (considered as Kallman syndrome). This anomaly has been described in a mother and her son and there have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
acropectororenal dysplasia	A very rare association of a Poland anomaly with characteristics of unilateral absence or hypoplasia of the pectoralis major muscle (most frequently involving the sternocostal head) and a variable degree of ipsilateral hand anomalies (including symbrachydactyly, brachydactyly, absent thumb and hypoplastic fingers), combined with a genito-urinary anomaly. Associated genito-urinary anomalies reported include renal hypoplasia or agenesis, duplex collecting system, ureteropelvic junction obstruction, hypospadias and undescended testicles.
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1f	A form of limb girdle muscular dystrophy with characteristics of muscle weakness affecting the pelvic girdle and especially the iliopsoas muscle. Respiratory impairment may be observed in advanced stages.
autosomal dominant limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 1a	A limb girdle muscular dystrophy caused by myotilin deficiency with characteristics of limb-girdle weakness in combination with dysarthria.
taurodontia with absent teeth and sparse hair syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital absence of the teeth and sparse or absent hair. Taurodontia is also present in the majority of cases. The syndrome has been described in less than 15 patients from different families.
timothy syndrome atypical type	Timothy syndrome is a multi-system disorder with characteristics of cardiac, hand, facial and neurodevelopmental features that include QT prolongation, webbed fingers and toes, flattened nasal bridge, low-set ears, small upper jaw, thin upper lip, and characteristic features of autism or autistic spectrum disorders. Timothy syndrome is caused by mutations in the CACNA1C gene. It is inherited as autosomal dominant trait. Researchers have identified two forms of Timothy syndrome. Type 1, which is also known as the classic type, includes all of the characteristic features described above. Type 2, or the atypical type, causes a more severe form of long QT syndrome and a greater risk of arrhythmia and sudden death. Unlike the classic type, the atypical type does not appear to cause webbing of the fingers or toes.
ulna fibula ray defect and brachydactyly syndrome (disorder)	A very rare malformation syndrome with characteristics of hypoplasia of ulna associated with hypoplastic to absent fourth and/or fifth digits, hypoplasia of fibula, short stature and facial dysmorphism.
visceral neuropathy and brain anomaly with facial dysmorphism and developmental delay syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of facial dysmorphology, neuropathic visceral dysmotility, neurogenic megacystis, intracerebral calcifications and developmental delay. It has been described in two siblings (brother and sister) born to consanguineous parents. The girl also had microcephaly and multicystic kidneys. The boy had a more extensive neuropathic visceral disorder, leading clinically to chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction syndrome.
xp/cs	Syndrome complex that has characteristics of the cutaneous features of xeroderma pigmentosum together with the systemic and neurological features of Cockayne syndrome. Less than 30 cases have been described to date. The disease manifests during infancy. Patients present with cutaneous UV-sensitive lesions that generally develop into skin cancer and also develop characteristic Cockayne syndrome manifestations such as microcephaly, hydrocephalus, cachexia, premature ageing, dwarfism, skin atrophy, arteriosclerosis, progressive hearing loss, cognitive deficit, spasticity, ataxia, pigmentary retinopathy and optic atrophy. Affected individuals have mutations in one of three XP genes: ERCC3 (2q21), ERCC2 (19q13.3), or ERCC5 (13q22-q34). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
xeroderma pigmentosum and cockayne syndrome complex (disorder)	Syndrome complex that has characteristics of the cutaneous features of xeroderma pigmentosum together with the systemic and neurological features of Cockayne syndrome. Less than 30 cases have been described to date. The disease manifests during infancy. Patients present with cutaneous UV-sensitive lesions that generally develop into skin cancer and also develop characteristic Cockayne syndrome manifestations such as microcephaly, hydrocephalus, cachexia, premature ageing, dwarfism, skin atrophy, arteriosclerosis, progressive hearing loss, cognitive deficit, spasticity, ataxia, pigmentary retinopathy and optic atrophy. Affected individuals have mutations in one of three XP genes: ERCC3 (2q21), ERCC2 (19q13.3), or ERCC5 (13q22-q34). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
froster iskenius waterson syndrome	An extremely rare arthrogryposis syndrome, described in only two pairs of siblings from two unrelated families to date with the association of arthrogryposis, congenital torticollis, dysmorphic facial features (i.e. asymmetry of the face, myopathic facial movements, ptosis, posteriorly rotated ears, cleft palate), progressive scoliosis and episodes of malignant hyperthermia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
primary ciliary dyskinesia and retinitis pigmentosa syndrome (disorder)	An X-linked ciliary dysfunction disorder of both the respiratory epithelium and photoreceptors of the retina. This leads to ocular problems including mild night blindness, constriction of the visual field and scotopic and photopic ERG responses reduced to 30-60%. It is also associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia manifestations including chronic bronchorrhoea with bronchoectasis and chronic sinusitis along with sensorineural hearing loss.
x-linked intellectual disability and epilepsy with progressive joint contracture and facial dysmorphism syndrome (diagnosis)	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, epilepsy, facial dysmorphism and progressive joint contractures. It has been described in two boys. Hypotonia and feeding problems at birth were also reported. The mode of transmission is X-linked.
x-linked intellectual disability w/ dysmorphism & cerebral atrophy syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with facial dysmorphism, patella luxation and abnormal growth of the teeth. It has been described in eight males from multiple generations of one family. The locus for the causative gene for this syndrome has been located to the region between p11.22 and p21.1 on the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability with cubitus valgus and dysmorphism syndrome (diagnosis)	This syndrome has characteristics of moderate intellectual deficit, marked cubitus valgus, mild microcephaly, a short philtrum, deep-set eyes, downslanting palpebral fissures and multiple nevi. Less than ten individuals have been described so far. Transmission is thought to be X-linked recessive.
autosomal recessive palmoplantar keratoderma and congenital alopecia syndrome	A rare genetic skin disorder with characteristics of congenital alopecia and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis. It is usually associated with cataracts, progressive sclerodactyly and pseudo-ainhum. To date the syndrome has been reported in two families (seven affected individuals) plus an additional sporadic patient was likely affected by the same condition. Usually presents during infancy with manifestations of fading of facial, scalp and body hair within the first months of life without subsequent re-growth. Body and facial keratosis pilaris are additional features that appear in the following years. Skin thickening of palms and soles develops during infancy and may have an unusual pattern affecting the two sides of fingers and palms, but usually sparing the palmar surfaces.
trigonocephaly with broad thumb syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal trigonocephaly and multiple anomalies including craniosynostosis, shallow orbits, unusual nose, deviation of the terminal phalanges of fingers and broad toes with duplication of the terminal phalanx. It has been described in a mother and her son. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
x-linked intellectual disability abidi type	This syndrome has characteristics of X-linked intellectual deficit and mild variable manifestations, including short stature, small head circumference, sloping forehead, hearing loss, abnormally shaped ears, and small testes. It has been described in eight affected males from three generations.
armfield syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficiency, short stature, seizures and small hands and feet. It has been described in six males from three generations of one family. Three of them also had cataracts and or glaucoma and two of them had cleft palate. The locus has been mapped to the terminal 8 Mb of Xq28.
x-linked intellectual disability stocco dos santos type (disorder)	This syndrome is characterised by severe intellectual deficit with hyperactivity, language delay, congenital hip luxation, short stature, kyphosis and recurrent respiratory infections. Aggressive behaviour and frequent epileptic seizures may also be present. The syndrome has been described in four boys from the same family. Transmission is X-linked and is caused by mutations in the KIAA1202 gene, localised to the Xp11.2 region.
x-linked intellectual disability siderius type (disorder)	This syndrome is characterised by mild to borderline intellectual deficit associated with cleft lip/palate. Preaxial polydactyly, large hands and cryptorchidism are sometimes present. The syndrome has been described in seven boys from two families. Transmission is X-linked and the syndrome is caused by mutations in the PHF8 gene, localised to the p11.21 region of the X chromosome.
syndromic x-linked intellectual disability type 11 (disorder)	This syndrome has manifestations of moderate intellectual deficit, obesity, macroorchidism and a characteristic facies (large ears, a prominent lower lip and puffy eyelids). It has been described in nine boys from two families. Transmission is X-linked and the causative gene has been localised to the q21.3-q27 region of the X chromosome.
x-linked intellectual disability seemanova type	This syndrome has characteristics of microcephaly, intellectual deficit, growth retardation and hypogenitalism. It has been described in four boys from one family. A characteristic facies and ophthalmologic anomalies were also present and included microphthalmia, microcornea and cataract. Transmission is X-linked.
zellweger-like syndrome without peroxisomal anomaly (disorder)	An extremely rare mitochondrial disorder with characteristics of facial dysmorphism similar to that seen in Zellweger syndrome. These features include frontal bossing, high forehead, up slanting palpebral fissures, hypoplastic supraorbital ridges, and epicanthal folds and in addition, pale skin, profound hypotonia, developmental delay and minor metabolic anomalies. No peroxisomal defects have been reported. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
lissencephaly type 3 metacarpal bone dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of severe microcephaly, agyria, agenesis of the corpus callosum, cerebellar hypoplasia, facial dysmorphism and epiphyseal stippling of the metacarpal bones. It has been described in two brothers. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and may be an allelic variant of Neu-Laxova syndrome and Lissencephaly type III with cystic dilations of the cerebellum and fetal akinesia sequence.
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with hypotonia and lactic acidosis syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, muscular hypotonia and the presence of lactic acidosis at birth. It has been described in two sisters (both of whom died within the first year of life) from a non-consanguineous Turkish family. The syndrome is caused by a homozygous point mutation in the exon 3A of the SLC25A3 gene encoding a mitochondrial membrane transporter.
isolated cryptophthalmos (disorder)	A congenital abnormality in which the eyelids are absent and skin covers the ocular bulb, which is often microphthalmic. Six cases of complete bilateral cryptophthalmia have been described. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
oral-facial-digital syndrome type 11	An extremely rare, sporadic form of Orofaciodigital syndrome with only a few reported cases and characteristics of facial (blepharophimosis, bulbous nasal tip, broad nasal bridge, downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears) and skeletal (post-axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae) malformations along with severe intellectual disability, deafness and congenital heart defects.
oral-facial-digital syndrome gabrielli type	An extremely rare, sporadic form of Orofaciodigital syndrome with only a few reported cases and characteristics of facial (blepharophimosis, bulbous nasal tip, broad nasal bridge, downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears) and skeletal (post-axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae) malformations along with severe intellectual disability, deafness and congenital heart defects.
orofaciodigital syndrome gabrielli type	An extremely rare, sporadic form of Orofaciodigital syndrome with only a few reported cases and characteristics of facial (blepharophimosis, bulbous nasal tip, broad nasal bridge, downslanting palpebral fissures and low set ears) and skeletal (post-axial polydactyly and fusion of vertebrae) malformations along with severe intellectual disability, deafness and congenital heart defects.
familial median cleft of upper and lower lip	A rare and isolated orofacial defect with manifestation of incomplete median clefts of both the lower lip (limited to the vermilion, with no muscle involvement) and upper lip (with muscle involvement), double labial frenulum and fusion of the upper gingival and upper labial mucosa (resulting in a shallow upper vestibular fold), in addition to poor dental alignment, and increased interdental distance between the lower and upper median incisors. Variable expressivity has been reported in an affected family.
simpson dysmorphia syndrome	An X-linked recessive syndrome caused by mutation(s) in the GPC3, OFD1, or rarely the GPC4 gene, encoding glypican 3, oral-facial-digital syndrome 1 protein, and glypican 4, respectively. The condition is characterized by macrosomia, coarse facies, cryptorchidism, congenital heart, kidney, liver, spleen, and musculoskeletal abnormalities.
microcephaly, seizure, intellectual disability, heart disease syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, a cardiac anomaly, micropenis, hypothyroidism, epileptic seizures and skeletal anomalies. It has been described in two males.
eco syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of various anomalies of the endocrine, cerebral, and skeletal systems resulting in neonatal mortality. Six cases from consanguineous parents have been described. Endocrine anomalies include hypoplasia of the adrenal and pituitary glands. Skeletal anomalies include micromelia, syndactyly, brachydactyly and ulnar deviation of hands. Facial anomalies, such as midface hypoplasia, micrognathia, and a flat and wide nasal bridge, are also observed. The disease is caused by mutations in the ICK gene, encoding an intestinal cell kinase. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
hypotrichosis with juvenile macular degeneration syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome that presents with short and sparse scalp hair from birth or the first months of life with no subsequent growth during life. During the first to third decades of life, visual acuity decreases because of progressive macular degeneration, leading in many cases to blindness between the second and fourth decades of life. The hair phenotype does not improve significantly with age, even though diffuse alopecia in infancy can evolve towards short and sparse hair in puberty. Caused by mutations in the CDH3 gene (16q22.1), encoding P-cadherin. P-cadherin is part of adherens junctions in various epithelia including the hair follicular epithelium. Inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.
embryopathy caused by mycophenolate mofetil	A malformative syndrome due to the teratogenic effect of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), an effective immunosuppressive agent widely used for the prevention of organ rejection after organ transplantation. To date the majority of cases have been offspring of women who received a solid organ transplant. The newborn or fetus generally has external ear anomalies. Cleft lip-palate with micrognathia is frequently observed. Aberrant orofacial cleft has been observed in one case. Ocular anomalies, such as microphthalmia and iris or chorioretinal coloboma are also frequent. Distal limbs anomalies as well as congenital malformations of the heart, kidneys and/or central nervous system may also be observed.
pili torti onychodysplasia syndrome (disorder)	A form of ectodermal dysplasia with characteristics of dystrophy of the distal part of the nails and trichodysplasia. It has been described in only one family. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, anal anomaly, distal phalangeal hypoplasia syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, epilepsy, hypoplasia of the terminal phalanges and an anteriorly displaced anus. It has been described in two sisters born to consanguineous parents. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and appears to be caused by anomalies in chromosome regions on chromosome 1 and chromosome 14.
autosomal recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa generalisata gravis	The most severe subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa characterised by generalised cutaneous and mucosal blistering and scarring associated with severe deformities and major extracutaneous involvement. Blisters develop at birth or during the neonatal period and affect all the body as well as the oral and gastrointestinal mucosa. Eye involvement is frequent and includes blepharitis and corneal blisters that can lead to loss of vision. Oesophageal stricture is frequent and result in severe dysphagia. Nearly all patients develop at least one aggressive squamous cell carcinoma. The disease is caused by null mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1) that usually lead to a lack of functional collagen VII, the main constituent of anchoring fibrils that anchor the basement membrane to the dermis. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
keratosis follicularis, dwarfism, cerebral atrophy syndrome	Syndrome that is characterized by generalized keratosis follicularis, severe proportionate dwarfism and cerebral atrophy. It has been described in six males from one family (three boys and three maternal uncles). Generalized alopecia and microcephaly were also present.
neuroectodermal endocrine syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of the combination of endocrine and neuroectodermal abnormalities. These abnormalities include low growth hormone levels, delayed puberty, type II diabetes mellitus, mild intellectual deficit, sensorineural deafness, characteristic facial appearance and alopecia. It has been described in four siblings from Myanmar.
nephrosis, deafness, urinary tract, digital malformation syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of variable anomalies of the urinary tract, thumbs and big toes, deafness and nephrosis. It has been described in five brothers. The mode of transmission has not been clearly established but seems to be either autosomal recessive or X-linked dominant.
embryofetopathy caused by methimazole	A teratogenic embryofetopathy that results from maternal exposition to methimazole in the first trimester of pregnancy. Methimazole is an antithyroid thionamide drug used for the treatment of Graves' disease. In the infant, methimazole may result in choanal atresia, oesophageal atresia, omphalocele, omphalomesenteric duct anomalies, congenital heart disease (such as ventricular septal defect), renal system malformations and aplasia cutis. Additional features that may be observed include facial dysmorphism (short up slanting palpebral fissures, a broad nasal bridge with a small nose and a broad forehead) and athelia.
keratin 14 related epidermolysis bullosa simplex (disorder)	A basal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterised by generalised or, less frequently, localised acral blistering. 19 cases have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth. Milia are rare but atrophic scarring and dystrophic nails usually occur, along with focal keratoderma (palms and soles) and rarely ichthyotic plaques. Extracutaneous involvement is common, including anaemia, growth retardation, oral cavity abnormalities (blisters and erosions, and caries) and constipation. Due to mutations in the KRT14 gene (17q12-q21), encoding keratin 14. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
congenital ichthyosis with hypotrichosis syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of congenital ichthyosis and hypotrichosis. It has been described in three members of a consanguineous Arab Israeli family. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait and is caused by a missense mutation in the ST14 gene, encoding the recently identified protease, matriptase on chromosome 11q24. Analysis of skin samples from the patients suggests that this enzyme plays a role in epidermal desquamation.
hereditary inclusion body myopathy, joint contracture, ophthalmoplegia syndrome (disorder)	Disease characterized by congenital joint contractures (normalizing during early childhood), external ophthalmoplegia and proximal muscle weakness. In adult cases, the muscular weakness is progressive. Nineteen affected individuals have been described from one large family. The causative gene, the hereditary inclusion-body myopathy (IBM3) gene, has been mapped to chromosome region 17p13.1. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
craniofrontonasal dysplasia with alopecia and hypogonadism	A phenotype of frontonasal dysplasia associated with total alopecia and hypogonadism. Four cases have been described in two families. The frontonasal dysplasia includes coronal craniosynostosis, large skull defect with aplasia of ethmoid and nasal bones, hypertelorism, severely depressed nasal bridge and bifid nasal tip. Affected individuals have mild to moderate intellectual deficit. A homozygous nonsense mutation in the human aristaless-like 4 (ALX4, 11p11.2) gene was identified in both families. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
perineal hemangioma, external genitalia malformation, lipomyelomeningocele, vesicorenal abnormality, imperforate anus syndrome (disorder)	PELVIS is an acronym defining the association of Perineal haemangioma, External genitalia malformations, Lipomyelomeningocele, Vesicorenal abnormalities, Imperforate anus and Skin tag. Eleven cases have been reported.
aica (5-amino-4-imidazole carboxamide) ribosiduria	An extremely severe inborn error of purine biosynthesis with clinical characteristics in the single reported case to date of profound intellectual deficit, epilepsy, dysmorphic features of the knees, elbows and shoulders and congenital blindness. In the one reported case the disease was caused by compound heterozygous mutation in the ATIC gene on chromosome 2q35.
congenital enterocyte heparan sulfate deficiency (disorder)	Disease that is characterized by massive enteric protein loss, secretory diarrhea and intolerance to enteral feeds during the first few weeks of life. It has been described in three male infants. Histochemical studies revealed a complete absence of enterocyte heparan sulfate. All three infants required total parenteral nutrition and repeated albumin infusions.
cerebellar ataxia, intellectual disability, optic atrophy, skin abnormalities syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with the association of a non-progressive congenital ataxia, severe intellectual deficit, optic atrophy and structural anomalies of the skin vessels. It has been described in five children from a large consanguineous Lebanese family. Short stature and microcephaly were also reported. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
cataract, congenital heart disease, neural tube defect syndrome	A multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of sacral neural tube defects resulting in tethered cord, atrial and/or ventricular septal heart defects (that are detected in infancy), bilateral symmetrical hyperopia, rapidly progressive early childhood cataracts, bilateral aphakic glaucoma and abnormal facial features (low frontal hairline, small ears, short philtrum, prominent, widely spaced central incisors, and micrognathia). Hypotonia, growth and developmental delay, seizures and joint limitation are also reported.
x-linked intellectual disability nascimento type (disorder)	A rare X-linked intellectual disability syndrome characterised by intellectual disability (with severe speech impairment), a myxoedematous appearance, dysmorphic facial features (including large head, synophrys, prominent supraorbital ridges, almond-shaped and deep-set eyes, large ears, wide mouth with everted lower lip and downturned lip corners), low posterior hairline, short, broad neck, marked general hirsutism and abnormal hair whorls, skin changes (e.g. dry skin or hypopigmented spots), widely spaced nipples, obesity, micropenis, onychodystrophy and seizures. Caused by mutation in the UBE2A gene on chromosome Xq24.
cortical blindness, intellectual disability, polydactyly syndrome (diagnosis)	Syndrome with characteristics of cortical blindness, intellectual deficit and polydactyly. This combination was found in three children of first-cousin parents. The facial features included prominent forehead, short nose, long philtrum and microretrognathia. Two of the three children died of acute gastroenteritis. Growth and psychomotor development were severely delayed.
46,xx disorder of sex development with skeletal anomalies syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome that is characterized by primary amenorrhea, ambiguous external genitalia and bone abnormalities for example hypoplasia of the mandibular condyles, hypoplasia of the maxilla, ulnar dislocation of the radial heads. It has been described in two sisters born to consanguineous parents.
female pseudohermaphroditism with skeletal anomalies syndrome	Syndrome that is characterized by primary amenorrhea, ambiguous external genitalia and bone abnormalities for example hypoplasia of the mandibular condyles, hypoplasia of the maxilla, ulnar dislocation of the radial heads. It has been described in two sisters born to consanguineous parents.
female pseudohermaphroditism with anorectal anomalies syndrome	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome, with characteristics of normal female karyotype, normal ovaries, male or ambiguous genitalia, urinary tract malformations (ranging from bilateral renal agenesis to mild unilateral hydronephrosis), mullerian duct anomalies (for example complete absence of the uterus and vagina, bicornuate uterus) and imperforate anus.
acral dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	A very rare subtype of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa with characteristics of blistering confined primarily to the hands and feet. The disease usually manifests during infancy with trauma-induced blisters limited to extremities. Healing of blisters is associated with milia formation, atrophic scarring and dystrophic nails. There is no extracutaneous involvement. Caused by mutations within the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1). Mutations in this gene lead to an alteration in function of collagen VII. This impairs its assembly into anchoring fibrils that anchor the basement membrane to the underlying dermis. Transmission is autosomal dominant (acral dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa) or autosomal recessive (acral recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa).
pancreatic and cerebellar agenesis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of neonatal diabetes mellitus associated with cerebellar and/or pancreatic agenesis. It has been described in four patients: two sisters and their female cousin belonging to a consanguineous Pakistani family, and one unrelated case (also born to consanguineous parents). Patients also present with facial dysmorphism (a triangular face, small chin, low set ears), flexion contractures of the arms and legs, very little subcutaneous fat and optic nerve hypoplasia. One of the patients had pancreatic agenesis and the others were suspected of having pancreatic hypoplasia. The syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder. It is caused by mutations in the PTF1A gene (10p12.3). Prenatal diagnosis is possible by demonstration of the absence of the cerebellum and severe intra-uterine growth retardation. All patients died in the neonatal period.
moyamoya angiopathy, short stature, facial dysmorphism, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism syndrome (disorder)	A very rare hereditary neurological dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of moyamoya disease, short stature of postnatal onset and stereotypical facial dysmorphism. The syndrome is extremely rare and has been reported in three unrelated families to date, with 10 affected individuals in several generations. These families are not from Japan or Asia, whereas in general the incidence of moyamoya disease is highest in Japan and other Asian countries, in comparison with other parts of the world. Affected patients are all male (X-linked inheritance) and have moyamoya angiopathy (progressive stenosis of the terminal portion of the intracranial internal carotid arteries), short stature, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and other variable manifestations.. The genetic cause appears to involve Xq28 deletions removing MTCP1/CMC4 and BRCC3 (Xq28) .The specific pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this disorder remain obscure, but appear to involve alteration in DNA repair.
intermediate anorectal malformation	A rare genetic non-syndromic subtype of anorectal malformation, resulting from a developmental defect during embryogenesis. The disorder has characteristics of a wide spectrum of anorectal anomalies lying between the pubococcygeal line and the ischial tuberosity (e.g., rectovestibular and rectovaginal fistulas in the female, recto bulbar fistula in the male and anal agenesis). Patients may present with failure to pass meconium, failure to thrive, and recurrent urinary tract infections.
neutropenia, monocytopenia, deafness syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of neutropenia with myeloid marrow hypoplasia, monocytopenia and congenital deafness. It has been described in three siblings who suffered recurrent bacterial infections.
richieri costa guion almeida ramos syndrome	Syndrome with the association of intellectual deficit, microbrachycephaly, hypotelorism, palpebral ptosis, a thin/long face, cleft lip, and anomalies of the lumbar vertebra, sacrum and pelvis. It has been described in two Brazilian sisters. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
clayton-smith donnai syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of ichthyosis, unusual facies (small mouth with a thin upper lip and lower lip with a midline groove) and digital anomalies (tapered fingers with a lack of distal flexion creases and wide spacing between the second and third fingers). It has been described in two siblings born to first cousin parents. Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
multiple sclerosis, ichthyosis, factor viii deficiency syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome that is characterised by the association of multiple sclerosis with lamellar ichthyosis and haematological anomalies (beta thalassaemia minor and a quantitative deficit of factor VIII-von Willebrand complex). Other clinical manifestations may include eye involvement (optic atrophy, diplopia), neuromuscular involvement (ataxia, pyramidal syndrome, gait disturbance) and sensory disorder. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
epilepsy telangiectasia syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, epilepsy, palpebral conjunctival telangiectasias and diminished serum immunoglobulin antibody, particular facies and a shortened fifth finger. It has been reported in six siblings from a Mexican family. It is probably transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
dysmorphism, pectus carinatum, joint laxity syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of joint laxity, pectus carinatum and facial dysmorphism (mild frontal bossing, a beaked nose with a low nasal bridge, malar hypoplasia, chubby cheeks, a striking philtrum and arched upper lips). It has been described in two siblings. The mode of transmission is unknown.
bonnemann meinecke reich syndrome	A syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies with characteristics of encephalopathy that predominantly occurs in the first year of life and presents as psychomotor delay. Additional features of the disease include moderate dysmorphia, craniosynostosis, dwarfism (due to growth hormone deficiency), intellectual disability, spasticity, ataxia, retinal degeneration and adrenal and uterine hypoplasia. The disease has been described in only two families, with each family having two affected siblings. An autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1991.
marfanoid habitus, intellectual disability autosomal recessive	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome described in four siblings and with characteristics of intellectual deficit, flat face and some skeletal features of Marfan syndrome such as tall stature, dolichostenomelia, arm span larger than height, arachnodactyly of hands and feet, little subcutaneous fat, muscle hypotonia and intellectual deficit.
microcephalus, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, short stature syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of microcephaly, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, short stature and facial dysmorphism (a narrow forehead, hypertrophy and fusion of the eyebrows, micrognathia and pinnae abnormalities). It has been described in five siblings (three males and two females) born to consanguineous parents. Additional congenital anomalies present in some of the patients included cubitus valgus and genu valgum. Early tooth loss was also reported. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
distal abd-filaminopathy	A neuromuscular disease with characteristics of progressive symmetric muscle weakness of anterior upper and posterior lower limbs. It has been described in several members of an Australian and an Italian family. The disease usually manifests during the third decade of life with thenar muscle weakness resulting in reduced grip strength. The disease is slowly progressive and generally proceeds with calf muscle weakness appearing during the fourth decade and proximal muscles becoming perceptibly affected in the fifth decade. The disease is due to mutations on the actin-binding domain of the FLNC gene that encodes filamin C, a muscle specific filamin that is also associated with myofibrillar myopathy when mutations affect other parts of the protein. The disease mechanism seems to be linked to an increased actin-binding affinity of filamin C.
distal myopathy with early respiratory muscle involvement (disorder)	A mid-life onset distal myopathy with characteristics of tibialis anterior weakness and progressive respiratory muscle involvement present from the onset of the disease. It has been described in three generations of a family (11 patients). Transmission is autosomal dominant and an anticipation phenomenon is suspected. No genes have yet been identified.
congenital extrahepatic biliary atresia	A congenital disorder characterized by blockage or absence of the extrahepatic bile ducts.
phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha related overgrowth syndrome	A spectrum of diseases with manifestation of overgrowth that results from somatic activating mutations in the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/AKT/mTOR pathway.
congenital clinodactyly (disorder)	An angulation of a digit at an interphalangeal joint in the plane of the palm (finger) or sole (toe). [PMID:16252026]
cranioectodermal dysplasia	An autosomal recessive disorder associated with mutation(s) in at least one of four genes (WDR35, IFT122, WDR19, or IFT43). It is characterized by distinctive abnormalities of the face and skull, in association with developmental abnormalities of the structures derived from ectodermal tissues.
leukonychia totalis	A rare nail anomaly disorder characterized by complete white discoloration of the nails. Patients typically present white, chalky nails as an isolated finding, although other cutaneous or systemic manifestations could also be present. There is evidence the disease can be caused by homozygous or heterozygous mutation in the PLCD1 gene on chromosome 3p22-p21.3.
acetabulum dysplasia	Congenital dislocation of the hip generally includes subluxation of the femoral head, acetabular dysplasia, and complete dislocation of the femoral head from the true acetabulum. This condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1000 live births and is more common in females than in males.
encephalocele (diagnosis)	A congenital neural tube closure defect resulting in the protrusion of the brain through a skull opening. When the protrusion includes the meninges, the term encephalomeningocele is used.
arc syndrome	A multisystem disorder with characteristics of neurogenic arthrogryposis multiplex congenita, renal tubular dysfunction and neonatal cholestasis with low serum gamma-glutamyl transferase activity. The phenotype is variable, even within the same family and cases may go undiagnosed as not all the patients present with the three cardinal features. Mutations in the VPS33B gene (15q26.1) have been found in 75% of ARC families, as well as mutations in the VIPAR gene (C14ORF133), encoding a protein that complexes with VPS33B. Most patients die within the first year of life despite supportive care for metabolic acidosis and cholestasis and those surviving longer show cirrhosis and severe developmental delay.
distal myopathy laing early-onset	Disease with characteristics of early-onset selective weakness of the great toe and ankle dorsiflexors and a very slowly progressive course. Age at onset varies from 4 to 5 years to the early twenties. Early weakness of neck flexion is present in all patients. Mild involvement of the facial musculature (particularly of the orbicularis oculi and oris muscles) is often present. Mild proximal weakness develops more than ten years after the onset of the disease. Caused by mutation of the MYH7 gene (14q11) and transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
houlston ironton temple syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomaly syndrome with characteristics of atrioventricular septal defects and blepharophimosis, in addition to radial (e.g. aplastic radius, shortened ulna, fifth finger clinodactyly, absent first metacarpal and thumb) and anal (e.g. imperforate or anteriorly placed anus, rectovaginal fistula) defects.
facial dysmorphism, cleft palate, loose skin syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of severe psychomotor delay, intellectual disability, congenital, symmetrical circumferential skin creases of arms and legs, cleft palate, and facial dysmorphism (including elongated face, high forehead, blepharophimosis, short palpebral fissures, microphthalmia, microcornea, epicanthic folds, telecanthus, microtia, posteriorly angulated ears, broad nasal bridge, microstomia and micrognathia). Additional features reported include short stature, microcephaly, hypotonia, pectus excavatum, severe scoliosis, hypoplastic scrotum and mixed hearing loss.
congenital muscular dystrophy with hyperlaxity	A rare genetic neuromuscular disease characterized by congenital hypotonia, generalized, slowly progressive muscular weakness, and proximal joint contractures with distal joint hypermobility and hyperlaxity. Scoliosis or rigidity of the spine and delayed motor milestones are also frequently reported. Other manifestations include a long myopathic face and in rare cases, respiratory failure, mild to moderate intellectual deficiency and short stature. Ambulation may be impaired with time.
connective tissue disorder due to lysyl hydroxylase-3 deficiency (diagnosis)	A rare genetic disease caused by lack of lysyl hydroxylase-3 (LH3) activity with characteristics of multiple tissue and organ involvement, including skeletal abnormalities (club foot, progressive scoliosis, osteopenia, pathologic fractures), ocular involvement (flat retinae, myopia, cataracts) and hair, nail and skin anomalies (coarse, abnormally distributed hair, skin blistering, reduced palmar creases, hypoplastic nails). Patients also present intrauterine growth retardation, facial dysmorphism (flat facial profile, low-set ears, shallow orbits, short and upturned nose, downturned corners of mouth) and joint flexion contractures. Growth and developmental delay, bilateral sensorineural deafness, friable diaphragm and later-onset spontaneous vascular ruptures are additional reported features. The disorder is caused by mutation in the PLOD3 gene, which encodes lysyl hydroxylase-3
foetal akinesia, cerebral and retinal hemorrhage syndrome	A rare lethal congenital myopathy syndrome characterised by decreased fetal movements and polyhydramnios in utero and the presence of akinesia, severe hypotonia with respiratory insufficiency, absent reflexes, joint contractures, skeletal abnormalities with thin ribs and bones, intracranial and retinal haemorrhages and decreased birth weight in the neonate.
x-linked lethal multiple pterygium syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis. The disease has the typical lethal multiple pterygium syndrome presentation comprising of multiple pterygia, severe arthrogryposis, cleft palate, cystic hygromata and/or fetal hydrops, skeletal abnormalities and fetal death in the second or third trimester with an X-linked pattern of inheritance.
aortic arch anomaly, facial dysmorphism, intellectual disability syndrome	A developmental anomaly with characteristics as birth of right-sided aortic arch, craniofacial dysmorphism (microcephaly, asymmetric, facial bones, broad forehead, borderline hypertelorism, nasal septum deviation, large nasal cavity, large, posteriorly rotated ears and microstomia with downturned corners), and intellectual disability. These features were observed in 4 members of one family, involving 2 successive generations, suggesting an autosomal dominant mode of transmission. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1968.
congenital lymphangioma of larynx (disorder)	A rare benign congenital malformation of the lymphatic system with a polypoidal, variable-sized, soft tissue mass located in the larynx. Most lesions manifest by the second year of life and depending on the size, patients may present with changes in voice, dysphagia, stridor, airway obstruction and/or respiratory distress. Cystic hygroma of the neck is frequently associated.
46,xy ovotesticular disorder of sex development	A rare genetic disorder of sex development with either the coexistence of both male and female reproductive gonads or, more frequently, the presence of one or both gonads containing a mixture of both testicular and ovarian tissue (ovotestes) in an individual with a normal male 46, XY karyotype. External genitalia are usually ambiguous, but can range from normal male to normal female and if a uterus and/or fallopian tubes are present, they are generally hypoplastic. Cryptorchidism, hypospadias, infertility and increased risk of gonadal neoplasm are frequently associated.
finnish upper limb onset distal myopathy (disorder)	A rare genetic distal myopathy with characteristics of slowly progressive distal to proximal limb muscle weakness and atrophy and early involvement of thenar and hypothenar muscles. Patients present with clumsiness of the hands and stumbling in the fourth to fifth decade of life, and later develop steppage gait and contractures of the hands. Progressive fatty degeneration affects intrinsic muscles of the hands, gluteus medium and both anterior and posterior compartment muscles of the distal lower extremities, with later involvement of forearm muscles, triceps, infraspinatus and the proximal lower limb muscles. Asymmetry of muscle involvement is common.
ihprf (infantile hypotonia, psychomotor retardation, characteristic facies )syndrome	A rare genetic neurodegenerative disorder with characteristics of severe, persistent hypotonia (presenting at birth or in early infancy), severe global developmental delay (with poor or absent speech, difficulty or inability to roll, sit or walk), profound intellectual disability and failure to thrive. Additional manifestations include microcephaly, progressive peripheral spasticity, bilateral strabismus and nystagmus, constipation and variable dysmorphic facial features (including plagiocephaly, broad forehead, small nose, low-set ears, micrognathia and open mouth with tented upper lip).
intellectual disability, alacrima, achalasia syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare genetic intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of delayed motor and cognitive development, absence or severe delay in speech development, intellectual disability and alacrima. Achalasia/dysphagia and mild autonomic dysfunction (anisocoria) have also been reported in some patients. The phenotype is similar to the one observed in autosomal recessive Triple A syndrome, but differs by the presence of intellectual disability in all affected individuals.
intellectual disability, brachydactyly, pierre robin syndrome (disorder)	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of mild to moderate intellectual disability and psychomotor delay, Robin sequence (including severe micrognathia and soft palate cleft) and distinct dysmorphic facial features (e.g. synophrys, short palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, small, low-set and posteriorly angulated ears, bulbous nose, long/flat philtrum and bow-shaped upper lip). Skeletal anomalies such as brachydactyly, clinodactyly, small hands and feet, and oral manifestations (e.g. bifid, short tongue, oligodontia) are also associated. Additional features reported include microcephaly, capillary hemangiomas on face and scalp, ventricular septal defect, corneal clouding, nystagmus and profound sensorineural deafness.
dislocation of hip and facial dysmorphism syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with manifestations of bilateral congenital dislocation of the hip, characteristic facial features (flat mid-face, hypertelorism, epicanthus, puffiness around the eyes, broad nasal bridge, carp-shaped mouth), and joint hyperextensibility. Congenital heart defects, congenital dislocation of the knee, congenital inguinal hernia, and vesicoureteric reflux have also been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1995.
macrocephaly and developmental delay syndrome (diagnosis)	A rare intellectual disability syndrome characterised by macrocephaly, mild dysmorphic features (frontal bossing, long face, hooded eye lids with small, downslanting palpebral fissures, broad nasal bridge, and prominent chin), global neurodevelopmental delay, behavioural abnormalities (e.g. anxiety, stereotyped movements) and absence or generalised tonic-clonic seizures. Additional features reported in some patients include craniosynostosis, fifth finger clinodactyly, recurrent pneumonia, and hepatosplenomegaly. The disease is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the KPTN gene on chromosome 19q13.
larsen-like syndrome b3gat3 type	A rare genetic primary bone dysplasia with characteristics of laxity, dislocations and contractures of the joints, short stature, foot deformities (e.g. clubfeet), broad tips of fingers and toes, short neck, dysmorphic facial features (hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, upturned nose with anteverted nares, high arched palate) and various cardiac malformations. Severe disease is associated with multiple fractures, osteopenia, arachnodactyly and blue sclerae. A broad spectrum of additional features, including scoliosis, radio-ulnar synostosis, mild developmental delay and various eye disorders (glaucoma, amblyopia, hyperopia, astigmatism, ptosis), are also reported.
oculoauricular syndrome, schorderet type	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of various ophthalmic anomalies (including congenital microphthalmia, microcornea, cataract, anterior segment dysgenesis, ocular coloboma and early onset rod-cone dystrophy) and abnormal external ears (low-set pinna with crumpled helix, narrow intertragic incisure, abnormal bridge connecting the crus of the helix and the anthelix, narrow external acoustic meatus and lobule aplasia). There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the HMX1 gene on chromosome 4p16.
oculoauricular syndrome, schorderet type (diagnosis)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of various ophthalmic anomalies (including congenital microphthalmia, microcornea, cataract, anterior segment dysgenesis, ocular coloboma and early onset rod-cone dystrophy) and abnormal external ears (low-set pinna with crumpled helix, narrow intertragic incisure, abnormal bridge connecting the crus of the helix and the anthelix, narrow external acoustic meatus and lobule aplasia). There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the HMX1 gene on chromosome 4p16.
odonto-onycho dysplasia alopecia syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of almost total alopecia with only sparse, thin, brittle, slow-growing scalp hair, fair and sparse eyebrows and eyelashes, absent axillary and pubic hair, fragile and brittle fingernails, thick and brittle toenails (both with a subungual corneal layer), hypodontia, microdontia, widely spaced teeth with hypoplastic enamel, mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots and areolae anomalies. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
odonto onycho dysplasia with alopecia syndrome	A rare genetic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of almost total alopecia with only sparse, thin, brittle, slow-growing scalp hair, fair and sparse eyebrows and eyelashes, absent axillary and pubic hair, fragile and brittle fingernails, thick and brittle toenails (both with a subungual corneal layer), hypodontia, microdontia, widely spaced teeth with hypoplastic enamel, mild palmoplantar keratosis, cafe au lait spots and areolae anomalies. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
oro-facial digital syndrome type 13 (disorder)	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia) and neuropsychiatric manifestations (epilepsy, depression), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (lingual hamartomas, cleft lip, and brachydactyly, clinodactyly, syndactyly of hands and feet). Leukoaraiosis on brain MRI examination is also associated.
degner syndrome	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with sporadic occurrence and characteristics of cardiac (mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia) and neuropsychiatric manifestations (epilepsy, depression), in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (lingual hamartomas, cleft lip, and brachydactyly, clinodactyly, syndactyly of hands and feet). Leukoaraiosis on brain MRI examination is also associated.
microcephaly, cerebral malformation, orofaciodigital syndrome	A rare subtype of orofaciodigital syndrome, with autosomal recessive inheritance and C2CD3 mutations. The disease has characteristics of severe microcephaly, trigonocephaly, severe intellectual disability and micropenis, in addition to oral, facial and digital malformations (gingival frenulum, lingual hamartomas, cleft/lobulated tongue, cleft palate, telecanthus, up-slanting palpebral fissures, microretrognathia, postaxial polydactyly of hands and duplication of hallux). Corpus callosum agenesis and vermis hypoplasia with molar tooth sign on brain imaging are also associated.
spina bifida and hypospadias syndrome (disorder)	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with the specific association of glandular hypospadias and lumbo-sacral spina bifida. Affected individuals may or may not present additional congenital anomalies, such as hydrocephaly, microstomia, patent ductus arteriosus, cryptorchidism, intestinal malrotation, rocker-bottom feet and hypertrichosis.
keratoderma with wooly hair type iv	A very rare hereditary epidermal disorder characterized by hypotrichosis/wooly scalp hair, sparse body hair, eyelashes and eyebrows, leukonychia and striate palmoplantar keratoderma (more severe on the soles than the palms), which progressively worsens with age. Pseudo ainhum of the fifth toes was also reported. Although the syndrome shares clinical similarities with both Naxos disease and Carvajal syndrome, cardiomyopathy is notably absent. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the KANK2 gene on chromosome 19p13.
familial isolated trichomegaly (disorder)	A rare genetic hair anomaly with characteristics of a prolonged anagen phase of the eyelash hairs, leading to extreme eyelash growth that may result in corneal irritation. Increased growth of hair on other parts of the face (eyebrows, cheeks, forehead) and/or the body (chest, arms, legs) may be associated. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the FGF5 gene on chromosome 4q21.
cylindrical spirals myopathy (diagnosis)	A rare form of congenital myopathy characterized by global muscle weakness, hypotonia, myotonia and cramps in the presence of cylindrical, spiral-shaped inclusions (located in the central and/or subsarcolemmal areas of muscle fibers) in skeletal muscle biopsy. Abnormal gait, scoliosis, epileptic encephalopathy and psychomotor delay may be associated.
microphthalmia, coloboma, rhizomelic skeletal dysplasia	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of a range of developmental eye anomalies (including anophthalmia, microphthalmia, colobomas, microcornea, corectopia, cataract) and symmetric limb rhizomelia with short stature and contractures of large joints. Intellectual disability with autistic features, macrocephaly, dysmorphic features, urogenital anomalies (hypospadia, cryptorchidism), cutaneous syndactyly and precocious puberty may also be present.
congenital muscular dystrophy type 1b	A rare genetic neuromuscular disorder characterised by proximal and symmetrical muscle weakness (particularly of neck, sternomastoid, facial and diaphragm muscles), spinal rigidity, joint contractures (Achilles tendon, elbows, hands), generalised muscle hypertrophy and early respiratory failure (usually in the first decade of life). Patients typically present delayed motor milestones and grossly elevated serum creatine kinase levels, and with disease progression, forced expiratory abdominal squeeze and nocturnal hypoventilation.
centronuclear myopathy type 4	A rare genetic skeletal muscle disease with characteristics of neonatal hypotonia, distal more than proximal muscle weakness, progressive exercise intolerance with prominent myalgias, and mild-to-moderate overall motor impairment with preserved ambulation. Face, extraocular, cardiac, and respiratory muscles are unaffected. Mild cognitive impairment is also noted in most patients.
van benthem driessen hanveld syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome characterised by psychomotor delay, severe intellectual deficit, severe muscle hypoplasia (with absence of subcutaneous fatty tissue), generalised contractures, craniofacial dysmorphic features (dolichocephaly, esotropia, ears of unequal size, high palate), chest and spinal deformities (sternum shifted to side, kyphoscoliosis), pulmonary anomalies (unilateral hypoplastic bronchial system), arachnodactyly, and genital abnormalities (cryptorchidism, hypospadias, testicular agenesis). Repeated respiratory tract infections and atelectasis are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1970.
maternal hyperthermia induced birth defect	A rare maternal disease-related embryofetopathy with characteristics of variable developmental anomalies of the fetus due to teratogenic effect of elevated maternal body temperature (resulting from febrile illness or hot environment exposure). Reported developmental anomalies include neural tube defects (spina bifida, encephalocele, anencephaly), cardiac defects (transposition of great vessels), urogenital defects (hypospadias), abdominal wall defects, cleft lip/palate, eye defects (cataract, coloboma) or various minor anomalies (for example bifid uvula, preauricular pit or tag). Consensus regarding cause and effect relationship has not been reached.
hivep2 (human immunodeficiency virus type i enhancer binding protein 2) related intellectual disability	A neurological disorder with characteristics of moderate to severe developmental delay and intellectual disability and mild dysmorphic features. Early symptoms include hypotonia, delayed development of motor skills, speech delay, hypertelorism, broad nasal bridge, and fingers with tapered ends. Other features include microcephaly, seizures, recurrent ear infections, strabismus, amblyopia and hyperopia. Behavioural problems such as hyperactivity, attention deficit disorder, aggression, anxiety and autism spectrum occur in some cases. Caused by mutations in the HIVEP2 gene leading to a shortage of functional HIVEP2 protein. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern however most cases of this condition result from de novo mutations in the gene.
servelle martorell syndrome	A rare congenital vascular anomaly syndrome characterised by venous or on occasion arterial malformations that lead to soft tissue hypertrophy and bone hypoplasia. An affected limb is generally shortened, highly deformed, painful and oedematous with associated bone and muscle hypotrophy. Single parts or multiple small parts of limbs are typically affected but more extensive involvement including complete extremity shoulder girdle and axilla have been reported.
brachydactyly, mesomelia, intellectual disability, heart defect syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, thin habitus with narrow shoulders, mesomelic shortness of the arms, craniofacial dysmorphism (for example long lower face, maxillary hypoplasia, beak nose, short columella, prognathia, high arched palate, obtuse mandibular angle), brachydactyly (mostly involving middle phalanges) and cardiovascular anomalies (such as aortic root dilatation, mitral valve prolapse).
neuhauser anomaly (disorder)	A rare cardiovascular morphological anomaly due to maldevelopment of embryonal aorta resulting in right aortic arch and left ligamentum arteriosum characterised by tracheooesophageal compression symptoms (stridor, dyspnoea, dysphagia, apnoeic episodes, recurrent respiratory infections).
epiphyseal dysplasia, hearing loss, dysmorphism syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of developmental delay, intellectual disability, short stature, sensorineural hearing impairment, facial dysmorphism (including epicanthus, broad, depressed nasal bridge, broad, fleshy nasal tip, mildly anteverted nares, deep nasolabial folds, broad mouth with thin upper lip) and skeletal anomalies (including abnormally placed thumbs, brachydactyly, scoliosis, dysplastic carpal bones). Severe behavior disturbances (aggression, hyperactivity), as well as hypopigmented skin lesions and hypoplastic digital patterns are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
diencephalic mesencephalic junction dysplasia (disorder)	A rare genetic non-syndromic cerebral malformation with characteristics of severe intellectual disability, progressive postnatal microcephaly, axial hypotonia, spastic quadriparesis, seizures and facial dysmorphism (bushy eyebrows, hairy forehead, broad nasal root, long flat philtrum, V-shaped upper lip). Additionally, talipes equinovarus, non-obstructive cardiomyopathy, persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous, obstructive hydrocephalus and autistic features may also be associated. On brain magnetic resonance imaging, the 'butterfly sign' is characteristically observed and cortical calcifications, agenesis of the corpus callosum, ventriculomegaly, brainstem dysplasia and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia have also been described.
hypomyelination neuropathy arthrogryposis syndrome	A rare genetic limb malformation syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital distal joint contractures (including talipes equinovarus and both proximal and distal interphalangeal joint contractures of the hands) and very severe motor paralysis at birth (such as lack of swallowing, autonomous respiratory function and deep tendon reflexes), leading to death within first 3 months of life. Fetal hypo or akinesia, late-onset polyhydramnios and dramatically reduced, or absent, motor nerve conduction velocities are frequently associated. Nerve ultrastructural morphology shows severe abnormalities of the nodes of Ranvier and myelinated axons.
anterior crossbite with destruction of oral mucosa (disorder)	A single anterior tooth pair is in crossbite and is also impinging on the soft tissue, resulting in destruction of the oral mucosa adjacent to one or both teeth involved.
primary tethered spinal cord syndrome	A genetic non-syndromic congenital malformation of the neurenteric canal, spinal cord and column characterized by progressive neurologic deterioration (pain, sensorimotor deficits, abnormal gait, decreased tone or abnormal reflexes), musculoskeletal changes (foot deformities and asymmetry, muscle atrophy, limb weakness and numbness, gait disturbances, scoliosis) and/or genitourinary manifestations (bladder and bowel dysfunction). Midline cutaneous stigmata in the lumbosacral region, such as turfs of hair, skin appendages, dimples, subcutaneous lipomas, skin discoloration or hemangiomas, are frequently associated.
autosomal recessive leukoencephalopathy, ischemic stroke, retinitis pigmentosa syndrome (disorder)	A rare neurologic disease characterized by global developmental delay, intellectual disability, multiple ischemic lesions on brain MRI, behavioral abnormalities, dystonia, choreic movements and pyramidal syndrome, facial dysmorphism (hypertelorism, arched palate, macroglossia), retinitis pigmentosa, scoliosis, seizures.
holmes gang syndrome	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X que pertenece al grupo de afecciones que presentan la asociación de déficit intelectual con facies hipotónica. Se desconoce la prevalencia pero el síndrome se describió por primera vez en 1988 en tres varones (un niño de 3 años y sus dos tíos maternos) de una familia en la cual otros dos varones habían muerto en la lactancia/infancia. Todos los varones afectados tenían una facies característica (estrechez bitemporal, fisuras palpebrales almendradas, puente nasal deprimido, fosas nasales en anteversión, labio superior corto y con forma de V invertida y macrostomía). Los pacientes sobrevivientes también tenían déficit intelectual severo, baja estatura, obesidad leve, hipogonadismo y un recuento total de surcos digitales disminuido. El síndrome se produce por mutaciones sin sentido en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3). La herencia es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
mental retardation, x-linked, with growth retardation, deafness, and microgenitalism	Un síndrome de retraso mental ligado al cromosoma X que pertenece al grupo de afecciones que presentan la asociación de déficit intelectual con facies hipotónica. Se desconoce la prevalencia pero el síndrome se describió por primera vez en 1988 en tres varones (un niño de 3 años y sus dos tíos maternos) de una familia en la cual otros dos varones habían muerto en la lactancia/infancia. Todos los varones afectados tenían una facies característica (estrechez bitemporal, fisuras palpebrales almendradas, puente nasal deprimido, fosas nasales en anteversión, labio superior corto y con forma de V invertida y macrostomía). Los pacientes sobrevivientes también tenían déficit intelectual severo, baja estatura, obesidad leve, hipogonadismo y un recuento total de surcos digitales disminuido. El síndrome se produce por mutaciones sin sentido en el gen ATRX (Xq13.3). La herencia es recesiva ligada al cromosoma X.
camfak - cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal syndrome	A rare degenerative genetic disorder with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance that primarily affects the central nervous system. It is caused in some cases by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group B gene, CSB/ERCC6, or the xeroderma pigmentosum genes: XPD/ERCC2, XPG/ERCC5, XPF/ERCC1, which are all involved in the transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair pathway of DNA repair. It is currently thought to be part of the spectrum of disorders within Cockayne syndrome. Clinical signs at birth include microcephaly, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and involuntary eye movements. The clinical prognosis is fatal with survivability beyond 5 years unlikely.
multiple congenital malformations	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
albinism	General term for a number of inherited defects of amino acid metabolism in which there is a deficiency or absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, or hair.
amelia (disorder)	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
syndrome, amniotic band	A disorder present in the newborn infant in which constriction rings or bands, causing soft tissue depressions, encircle digits, extremities, or limbs and sometimes the neck, thorax, or abdomen. They may be associated with intrauterine amputations.
agenesis of eye (disorder)	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
arnold-chiari syndrome (disorder)	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
arnold chiari deformity	En medfödd missbildning, där lillhjärnan och den förlängda märgen löper ner i ryggmärgskanalen genom foramen magnum. Missbildningen kan vara förenad med andra defekter, såsom spina bifida occulta och meningomyelocele (ryggmärgsbråck). Missbildningen indelas i olika typer, typ I, typ II (den vanligaste, med hoptryckning av märgen och lillhjärnstonsillerna i kombination med meningomyelocele), typ II I och typ IV.
cleft lip, unspecified	Congenital defect in the upper lip where the maxillary prominence fails to merge with the merged medial nasal prominences. It is thought to be caused by faulty migration of the mesoderm in the head region.
ocular coloboma	Congenital anomaly in which some of the structures of the eye are absent due to incomplete fusion of the fetal intraocular fissure during gestation.
craniosynostosis syndromes	Premature closure of one or more CRANIAL SUTURES. It often results in plagiocephaly. Craniosynostoses that involve multiple sutures are sometimes associated with congenital syndromes such as ACROCEPHALOSYNDACTYLIA; and CRANIOFACIAL DYSOSTOSIS.
engelmann syndrome	An autosomal dominant form of dysplasia that is characterized by progressive thickening of diaphyseal cortex of long bones. Mutations in the gene that encodes TRANSFORMING GROWTH FACTOR BETA1 are one cause of this disorder.
ectopia cordis	A rare developmental defect in which the heart is abnormally located partially or totally outside the THORAX. It is the result of defective fusion of the anterior chest wall. Depending on the location of the heart, ectopia cordis can be thoracic, thoracoabdominal, abdominal, and cervical.
hereditary ovalocytosis	An intrinsic defect of erythrocytes inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. The erythrocytes assume an oval or elliptical shape.
cushion, endocardial; defect	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
endocardial cushion defects nos (disorder)	A spectrum of septal defects involving the ATRIAL SEPTUM; VENTRICULAR SEPTUM; and the atrioventricular valves (TRICUSPID VALVE; BICUSPID VALVE). These defects are due to incomplete growth and fusion of the ENDOCARDIAL CUSHIONS which are important in the formation of two atrioventricular canals, site of future atrioventricular valves.
double teeth	Two teeth united during development by the union of their tooth germs; the teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.
heart; deformity, septum	Abnormalities in any part of the HEART SEPTUM resulting in abnormal communication between the left and the right chambers of the heart. The abnormal blood flow inside the heart may be caused by defects in the ATRIAL SEPTUM, the VENTRICULAR SEPTUM, or both.
keratoconus	A noninflammatory, usually bilateral protrusion of the cornea, the apex being displaced downward and nasally. It occurs most commonly in females at about puberty. The cause is unknown but hereditary factors may play a role. The -conus refers to the cone shape of the corneal protrusion. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
tongue microglossia	Decreased length and width of the tongue. [PMID:19125428]
mandible small	Abnormally small jaw.
phocomelia, unspecified limb(s)	Missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts (such as hands and/or feet) connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity, leading to a flipper-like appearance, as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing (such as amelia), or the distal part of a limb is absent (peromelia). [HPO:probinson]
placenta; accreta	Abnormal placentation in which all or parts of the PLACENTA are attached directly to the MYOMETRIUM due to a complete or partial absence of DECIDUA. It is associated with POSTPARTUM HEMORRHAGE because of the failure of placental separation.
obstructive subaortic conus	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
pulmonary infundibular stenosis	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
situs transversus	A congenital abnormality in which organs in the THORAX and the ABDOMEN are opposite to their normal positions (situs solitus) due to lateral transposition. Normally the STOMACH and SPLEEN are on the left, LIVER on the right, the three-lobed right lung is on the right, and the two-lobed left lung on the left. Situs inversus has a familial pattern and has been associated with a number of genes related to microtubule-associated proteins.
fallot tetralogy of	A combination of congenital heart defects consisting of four key features including VENTRICULAR SEPTAL DEFECTS; PULMONARY STENOSIS; RIGHT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY; and a dextro-positioned AORTA. In this condition, blood from both ventricles (oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor) is pumped into the body often causing CYANOSIS.
malformation tooth	Congenital absence of or defects in structures of the teeth.
hyperdontia	An extra tooth, erupted or unerupted, resembling or unlike the other teeth in the group to which it belongs. Its presence may cause malposition of adjacent teeth or prevent their eruption.
conjoined twins nos	MONOZYGOTIC TWINS who are joined in utero. They may be well developed and share only a superficial connection, often in the frontal, transverse or sagittal body plane, or they may share a partial duplication of a body structure. Alternatively, there may be a small and incompletely developed twin conjoined to a larger, more fully developed twin.
autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease	A genetic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance, characterized by multiple CYSTS in both KIDNEYS and associated LIVER lesions. Serious manifestations are usually present at BIRTH with high PERINATAL MORTALITY.
myelocele of unspecified site	Herniation of spinal cord tissue through a defect in a region of the vertebral column. The protrusion of the tissue is flush with the level of the skin surface.
musculoskeletal congenital	Congenital structural abnormalities and deformities of the musculoskeletal system.
congenital aphakia	Absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect. [HPO:probinson]
microtia was noted	Underdevelopment of the external ear. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19152421, PMID:3270622]
craniorachischisis (fissure skull/vertebral column)	A rare and severe form of neural tube defect in which there are open cranial and open spinal defects at birth.
polydactyly (diagnosis)	A congenital anomaly of the hand or foot, marked by the presence of supernumerary digits.
congenital anomaly nos of urinary system any part, except urachus	An abnormality of the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra that is present at birth. Representative examples include renal hypoplasia, renal agenesis, accessory kidney, absence of ureter, atresia of bladder neck, and atresia of urethra.
caroli's syndrome	Medfödd cystisk utvidgning av leverns gallgångar. Den består av två typer: enkel, med enbart gallgångsutvidgning eller ektasi, och komplex, med tillhörande utbredd fibros och portahypertension. Godart ad njurkanalsektasi hör samman med båda typer.
acc - agenesis of corpus callosum	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
regional odontodysplasia	A localized arrested tooth development which appears to involve most commonly the anterior teeth, usually on one side of the midline, most often the maxillary central and lateral incisors. Roentgenographically, the teeth have a ghostlike appearance. Calcification and bits of prismatic enamel may be found in the pulp and the enamel is thin and absent in part. (Jablonski, Illustrated Dictionary of Dentistry, 1982)
cah - congenital adrenal hypoplasia	A rare genetic disorder that affects the adrenal gland. It usually presents in infancy with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. If it is not recognized and treated promptly, it may be lethal.
syndrome, hemangioma thrombocytopenia	Rapidly growing vascular lesion along the midline axis of the neck, upper trunk, and extremities that is characterized by CONSUMPTION COAGULOPATHY; THROMBOCYTOPENIA; and HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA. It is often associated with infantile Kaposiform HEMANGIOENDOTHELIOMA and other vascular tumors such as tufted ANGIOMA.
webbing of neck	A congenital, usually bilateral, thick web-like fold of skin that extends from the acromion to the mastoid process. This deformity is associated with Turner Syndrome and Noonan Syndrome.
ectopic kidney	A developmental defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal anatomic position. [HPO:probinson]
coloboma of the fundus	Absence of a region of the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. [HPO:probinson]
atresia pulm	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
pulmonary atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the RIGHT VENTRICLE and the PULMONARY ARTERY. Lacking a normal PULMONARY VALVE, unoxygenated blood in the right ventricle can not be effectively pumped into the lung for oxygenation. Clinical features include rapid breathing, CYANOSIS, right ventricle atrophy, and abnormal heart sounds (HEART MURMURS).
brachydactyly-spherophakia syndrome	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
enostosis	An osteoma that develops in the medullary cavity of the bone.
scaphocephaly	Premature fusion of the sagittal suture.
clawed hands	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
claw-hand deformities	A condition in which middle parts of the hand (fingers and metacarpals) are missing giving a cleft appearance. The severity is very variable ranging from slightly hypoplastic middle fingers over absent middel fingers as far as oligo- or monodactyl hands. [HPO:sdoelken]
congenital absence of hindpaw	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
congenital pseudoarthrosis of tibia (disorder)	A condition characterized by non-union of the tibia, which is present at birth. It is usually associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.
bipartite patella	A developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood. [HPO:probinson]
congenital musculoskeletal deformity spine kyphosis	An abnormally increased curvature of the thoracic portion of the spine that is present at the time of birth.
congenital fused ribs	Complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs. [HPO:probinson]
gastroschisis (disorder)	A congenital defect with major fissure in the ABDOMINAL WALL lateral to, but not at, the UMBILICUS. This results in the extrusion of VISCERA. Unlike OMPHALOCELE, herniated structures in gastroschisis are not covered by a sac or PERITONEUM.
congenital absence of the nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of nose (disorder)	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
congenital aortic valve atresia	A rare congenital heart defect characterized by the complete failure of the aortic valve to open. It is manifested during infancy with cyanosis, dyspnea, and rapidly progressing heart failure.
congenital atrichosis	A congenital condition characterized by the absence of hair on the scalp or entire body. The lack of hair is rarely absolute and is usually accompanied by incompletely grown, lanugo-like hair. It affects males twice as much as females and a familial tendency is common.
absence; breast(s), congenital	Failure to develop and congenital absence of the breast. []
hypoplastic breast	A disorder characterized by underdevelopment of the breast.
congenital anomaly of digestive system	Congenital structural abnormalities of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
congenital microgastria (disorder)	A developmental anomaly wtih a small tubular or saccular midline stomach. [PMID:10067744]
absence; gallbladder, congenital	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
hypoplasia of pancreas (diagnosis)	Hypoplasia of the pancreas. [HPO:probinson]
adrenal; absent	Absent development of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
abnormal adrenal gland position	Abnormal anatomical location of the adrenal gland. [DDD:spark]
renal agenesis unilateral	A congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of only one kidney.
congenital hypoplasia of kidney	Hypoplasia of the kidney. [HPO:probinson]
renal duplication	A congenital anomaly of the urinary tract, in which the kidney is duplicated and is drained via two separate renal pelves and ureters. [HPO:probinson]
duplication of kidney	A congenital abnormality of the kidney characterized by the presence of two separate pelvicocaliceal systems with a single or duplex ureter.
renal fusion	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
kidneys, fused	Congenital fusion of two kidneys.
malposition of ureter	A congenital anomaly in which the ureteral orifice drains into an abnormal location.
ovary; absence, congenital	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
ametria	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
congenital uterine abnormality (obstetric) - didelphic	A malformation of the uterus in which the uterus is present as a paired organ as a result of the failure of fusion of the mullerian ducts during embryogenesis. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis and aplasia of cervix (disorder)	Congenital absence of the cervix. []
open eye	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
accessory eyelid (disorder)	The presence of more than the normal number of eyelids. [GOC:MG]
malformation of ear	An abnormality of the ear. [HPO:probinson]
atretic external auditory canals	Absence or failure to form of the external auditory canal. [HPO:probinson]
accessory tragus (physical finding)	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
preauricular tag	Variably shaped, cartilage-containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus. [eom:095679c21044c851]
spleen accessory	Homogeneous organ, each instance of which is a connected or detached part or enclave of some spleen.
acardiacus	A condition which occurs in monozygotic twins in which one of the fetuses supplies the majority of the cardiac output to its co-twin through its umbilical artery. The recipient twin has only rudimentary organs and structure and is not viable.
congenita aplasia cuti	Localized or widespread congenital absence of skin. The lesions most frequently occur in the scalp, are well demarcated, may be superficial or deep, and are not associated with inflammation.
absence of the sacrum	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
atresia of nasolacrimal duct (disorder)	A developmental disorder of the lacrimal drainage system that most often affects the lacrimal ostium and resulting in non-opening of the nasolacrimal duct. It usually results from a non-canalization of the nasolacrimal duct. [HPO:probinson]
cor triloculare	A congenital anatomic anomaly in which the heart has only three chambers.
mitral; atresia	A congenital heart defect characterized by the complete atresia of the mitral valve.
gallbladder; hypoplasia	The presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder. [HPO:probinson]
fistula of urachus (disorder)	Persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus. [Eurenomics:ewuehl]
short femora	An abnormal shortening of the femur. [HPO:probinson]
extra ribs	The presence of more than 12 rib pairs. [HPO:probinson]
cor; triloculare, biventriculare	Complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections. [DDD:dbrown, HPO:probinson]
lymphatic malformations	Medfödda eller förvärvade strukturella avvikelser i lymfsystemet, inklusive lymfkärlen.
skeletal dysplasia	A general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues. [HPO:probinson]
hypoplasia; clavicle	Reduced length of the clavicles. [HPO:probinson]
nervous system; disorder, congenital	Strukturella missbildningar i det centrala eller perifera nervsystemet, främst till följd av defekt embryogenes.
duplicated nail	A digit with two nails, with at least some soft tissue between them. [PMID:19125433]
extra long bones of hand	The presence of more than the normal number of metacarpal bones. [HPO:curators]
abnormality of horizontal incisor relationship	Přesah horních řezáků před dolními v horizontálním směru. Mírný p. je fyziologický, je dán větší šířkou horního zubního oblouku. Při poruchách mezičelistních vztahů může dojít ke skusu "hrana na hranu\" nebo k obrácenému skusu, kdy dolní řezáky stojí před horními. (cit. Velký lékařský slovník online, 2017 http://lekarske.slovniky.cz)
asplenia (congenital)	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
hypoplasia of the radius	A congenital deformity characterized by the presence of hypoplastic radius. It is usually associated with club hand deformity.
short supernumerary rib (disorder)	An extra rib at the cervicothoracic border with the distal extremity rounded, length less than one third of the length of the ossified portion of the first thoracic rib and no costal cartilage distal. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
congenital deformity of head craniofacial cleft	A congenital malformation with a cleft (gap or opening) in the face. [HPO:probinson]
underdeveloped ovary	Developmental hypoplasia of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
congenital hypoplasia of thymus (disorder)	Underdevelopment of the thymus. [HPO:curators]
congenital absence of thymus	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
aplasia of thyroid (with myxedema)	Absence of the thyroid gland in a newborn.
omphalocele (physical finding)	A congenital defect in the muscles of the abdominal wall that results in the intestines and other abdominal organs developing outside the abdominal wall covered in a sac.
congenital ectopic pupil	A malposition of the pupil owing to a developmental defect of the iris. [DDD:gblack, HPO:probinson]
hamartomatous disease (disorder)	A benign tumor-like nodule composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues which is present at birth.
congenital malformation syndromes (diagnosis)	A syndrome characterized by the presence of congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or system.
parathyroid agenesis	Aplasia of the parathyroid gland. [HPO:probinson]
22q11.2 duplication syndrome	La asociación de un amplio espectro clínico y una duplicación de la región con deleción en pacientes con síndromes de DiGeorge o velocardiofacial, lo que establece un síndrome de duplicación complementaria. La presentación clínica en los pacientes es extremadamente variable y comparte características con los síndromes de deleción de 22q11.2, incluyendo defectos cardíacos, anomalías urogenitales, insuficiencia velofaríngea con fisura de paladar o sin ella y varía desde múltiples defectos hasta dificultades leves del aprendizaje y algunos individuos son prácticamente normales.
chromosome 2q37 deletion syndrome	A syndrome of high phenotypic variability caused by contiguous gene deletions in 2q37. The inheritance is autosomal dominant. The condition may be characterized by brachydactly type E; mental retardation; short stature; and other skeletal, cardiovascular, and neurologic manifestations.
pilonidal cyst with abscess	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
congenital anomaly;cardiovas	A heart or vascular abnormality which is inborn or present at birth.
congenital hypotrichosis	A congenital condition, usually due to genetic aberrations, that is characterized by a lack of hair growth on the head and/or body.
distal xq28 microduplication syndrome	A rare hereditary syndromic intellectual disability characterized by cognitive impairment, behavioral and psychiatric problems, recurrent infections, atopic diseases and distinctive facial features in males. Females are clinically asymptomatic or mildly affected presenting mild learning difficulties and facial dysmorphism.
3p25.3 deletion syndrome (disorder)	3p25.3 microdeletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly characterised by intellectual disability, epilepsy or EEG abnormalities, poor speech, ataxia, and stereotypic hand movements.
child development disorders	Disorders in which there is a delay in development based on that expected for a given age level or stage of development. These impairments or disabilities originate before age 18, may be expected to continue indefinitely, and constitute a substantial impairment. Biological and nonbiological factors are involved in these disorders. (From American Psychiatric Glossary, 6th ed)
birth disorder nos	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
congenita	Denoting something that is present at birth.
anomaly; multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
agenesis	A congenital abnormality resulting in the absence of an anatomical structure.
congenital infundibular stenosis	Narrowing below the PULMONARY VALVE or well below it in the infundibuluar chamber where the pulmonary artery originates, usually caused by a defective VENTRICULAR SEPTUM or presence of fibrous tissues. It is characterized by restricted blood outflow from the RIGHT VENTRICLE into the PULMONARY ARTERY, exertional fatigue, DYSPNEA, and chest discomfort.
diaphragm, unilateral agenesis of	Diaphragmatic hernia that is present at birth.
syndactyly of multiple digits	A rare anatomical malformation characterized by polydactyly (extra fingers or toes) and syndactyly (webbed fingers or toes).
hemivertebra	Absence of one half of the vertebral body. [HPO:probinson]
laryngeal atresia	Laryngeal atresia is a congenital failure of the laryngeal opening to develop, resulting in partial or total obstruction at or just above or below the glottis.
congenital laryngocele (disorder)	Congenital anomalous dilitation of the laryngeal saccule that may extend internally into the airway or externally through the thyrohyoid membrane.
monophthalmia	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
sacral dimple	A small hollow area or sinus present at birth and located just above the crease of the buttocks. In most cases, pilonidal dimples are benign and may just be accompanied by increased hair growth in the area.
amazia	Absence of one or both mammary glands.
congenital malformation syndrome due to known exogenous cause	A syndrome characterized by the presence of structural malformations that are present at birth and can be attributed to an exogenous cause.
neurocutaneous melanosis syndrome	A congenital condition characterized by the presence of giant and/or multiple satellite congenital melanocytic nevi in the skin and benign melanocytic pigmentation of the leptomeninges.
thyroid gland malformation	An anatomic abnormality of the thyroid gland.
atretic	Absence or closure of a normal body orifice or tubular organ. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
congenital deformation	A congenital anatomic abnormality manifested during the neonatal period.
neonatal hearing impairment	An abnormality that affects hearing within the first month after birth. It may or may not result in hearing loss.
macrocephaly at birth	The presence of an abnormally large skull with onset at birth. [HPO:probinson]
gnathoschisis	A congenital abnormality consisting of clefting in the jaw, which results from incomplete fusion of the embryonic mandibular prominence.
fetus-to-fetus placental transfuse syndrome, unsp trimester	Passage of blood from one fetus to another via an arteriovenous communication or other shunt, in a monozygotic twin pregnancy. It results in anemia in one twin and polycythemia in the other. (Lee et al., Wintrobe's Clinical Hematology, 9th ed, p737-8)
congenital systemic disorder	An inherited disorder that presents with systemic manifestations.
lithium-induced birth defects	Congenital abnormalities, mainly cardiovascular malformations, which develop in a fetus when the mother uses lithium medication during pregnancy.
congenital hand and foot deformity	A malformation in the hand or foot that is present at birth. Representative examples include syndactyly, polydactyly, brachydactyly, and thumb hypoplasia.
congenital disruption	A morphologic defect of an organ, part of an organ, or a larger region of the body that results from the extrinsic breakdown of, or an interference with, an originally normal developmental process.
caudal dysplasia	Severe reduction of caudal structures, including reduction of or absence of hindlimbs, tail, and/or sacral area. (Makris S, Solomon HM, Clark R, Shiota K, Barbellion S, Buschmann J, Ema M, Fujiwara M, Grote K, Hazelden KP, Hew KW, Horimoto M, Ooshima Y, Parkinson M, Wise LD. Terminology of developmental abnormalities in common laboratory mammals (Version 2). Part B. Birth Defects Res B Dev Reprod Toxicol. 2009 Aug;86(4):227-327.)
celosomy	A developmental abnormality characterized by the complex protrusion of viscera outside the abdominal wall.
cleft maxilla	A congenital abnormality consisting of a fissure in the midline of the upper jawbone.
major congenital anomaly	A major congenital anomaly is a structural or functional defect with the following three characteristics: 1) Of prenatal origin; 2) Present at the time of live birth or fetal demise, or in utero; 3) Affecting (or has the propensity to affect) the health, survival, or physical or cognitive functioning of the individual.
anatomical deformity	An anatomic abnormality that is either present at birth or appears later in life.
vulvar acquired melanocytic nevus	A benign nevus that arises from the vulva during childhood and grows with increasing age.
vulvar congenital melanocytic nevus	A benign nevus that arises from the vulva and is present at birth.
adverse event outcome individual case safety report terminology	Terminology used in Individual Case Safety Reports for description of adverse event outcomes, section B2 of FDA MedWatch Form.
icsr terminology	Terminology used in individual case reports for voluntary and mandatory reporting of adverse reactions or adverse events during both pre and post approval periods of medical product development.
cdisc-obscls	The terminology subset that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) observation classes.
newborn screening terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support neonatal and infant examination.
nrnt	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the efforts of the Neonatal Research Network.
perinatal terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events in the perinatal population.
cptac terminology	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC).
cptac causes of death codelist	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on causes of death.
cptac medical conditions codelist	Terminology used in support of the data collection efforts of the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) with the focus on medical conditions.
annex e	Terms/codes for describing the clinical signs and symptoms or conditions of the affected person appearing as a result of the medical device adverse event/incident used by the CDRH.
ab	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
multiple hairs per follicle	Pili bifurcati is an uncommon transitory hair shaft dysplasia with characteristic of segmental duplication of the hair shaft. Patients generally present with diffuse alopecia. Hypopigmentation can be observed. This anomaly of the hair shaft occurs in normal hair, pili canaliculi, or monilethrix and has been associated with the mosaic trisomy 8 syndrome, pseudomonilethrix type II or protein deficiency states. It can also be secondary to ulcerative colitis and extensive bowel resection. Caused by a transient duplication of the papilla's tip during the anagen phase, leading to the transitory production a two complete shafts, in the same follicular matrix, that emerge through a single pilary canal. When the two papilla tips fuse, both parallel branches form a single shaft again. When the transient duplication of the papilla tip occurs repetitively during the anagen phase, a series of bifurcation-fusion can be observed along the shaft. This situation is called pili multi-bifurcati. As a duplicated papilla tip can split again, a doubly bifurcated shaft may be observed: pili bi-bifurcati.
teratologic	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
remnant of embryonic branchial cleft	A congenital defect in the neck that occurs during early embryonic development. It is caused by developmental abnormalities of the pharyngeal arches and results in the development of a cyst or a fissure in the side of the neck.
anomalies	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
congenital elevation of scapula	A congenital skeletal deformity characterized by the elevation of one scapula (thus, one scapula is located superior to the other). [HPO:probinson]
abnorm	Užij u orgánů pro vrozené defekty způsobující změny v morfologii orgánu; užij také pro abnormality u zvířat.
deformity sprengels	A congenital skeletal deformity characterized by the elevation of one scapula (thus, one scapula is located superior to the other). [HPO:probinson]
coloboma of optic disc (disorder)	A cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly. [HPO:probinson, PMID:16219745]
pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas	A congenital or acquired malformation characterized by abnormal communication between the pulmonary arteries and pulmonary veins in the lungs.
arteriovenous fistulas pulmonary	A congenital or acquired malformation characterized by abnormal communication between the pulmonary arteries and pulmonary veins in the lungs.
diverticulum of bladder	Diverticulum (sac or pouch) in the wall of the urinary bladder. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of salivary gland (disorder)	A rare autosomal dominant disorder with features of aplasia, atresia or hypoplasia of the lacrimal and salivary glands leading to varying manifestations from infancy such as recurrent eye infections, irritable eyes, epiphora, xerostomia, dental caries, dental erosion and oral inflammation.
aarskogs syndrome	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
faciogenital dysplasia	An X-linked condition associated in a subset of cases with mutation(s) in the FGD1 gene, encoding a complex signaling protein containing FYVE, RhoGEF, and PH domains. The condition is usually characterized by distinctive facial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, shawl scrotum (altered anatomical relationship between the penis and the scrotum) cryptorchidism, and developmental delay.
polydactyly, postaxial	A form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the fifth finger or fifth toe. [HPO:probinson]
hmc syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of the combination of hypertelorism, cleft lip and palate and microtia. Nine cases have been reported in the literature in seven families. Some patients have associated cardiac or renal congenital malformations. Short stature and intellectual deficiency are common. The reported cases support autosomal recessive inheritance.
metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, mckusick type	A rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutation in the gene for RNAase RMRP. It is characterized by short-limb dwarfism, presence of fine sparse hair, and T-and B-cell immunodeficiency.
bifid nose	Visually assessable vertical indentation, cleft, or depression of the nasal bridge, ridge and tip. [PMID:19152422]
finger-like thumbs	A thumb with three phalanges in a single, proximo-distal axis. Thus, this term applies if the thumb has an accessory phalanx, leading to a digit like appearance of the thumb. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125433]
ophryogenes ulerythema	Symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead, the chin, the ear lobes and helices. Atrophodermia vermiculata is characterized by erythema and follicular plugs on the cheeks, developing into painless reticular impressions. [HPO:probinson]
cleft lip-palate, paramedian mucous cysts of the lower lip, popliteal pterygium, digital and genital anomalies	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
popliteal pterygium syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
borjeson syndrome	An X-linked recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the PHF6 gene, encoding PHD finger protein 6. It is characterized by severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, hypogonadism, hypometabolism, and obesity.
hereditary lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome	An autosomal dominant genetic disorder caused by mutation(s) in the FOXC2 gene, encoding forkhead box protein C2. The condition is characterized by lymphedema and distichiasis.
macrodactyly	A condition in which a finger or toe is larger than normal size secondary to excessive growth of the anatomical structures or abnormal accumulation of substances.
congenital pseudarthrosis of clavicle (disorder)	The two portions of the clavicle (corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle) are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum, and a synovial membrane develops, resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically. Congenital pseudarthrosis of the clavicle generally presents as a painless mass or swelling over the clavicle. [HPO:probinson, PMID:22295044]
agenesis of nose	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of lung	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
extra nipples	Presence of more than two nipples. [HPO:probinson]
small intestine atresia nos (disorder)	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the small intestine.
megaloduodenum (diagnosis)	Dilation and elongation of the duodenum with hypertrophy of all layers of the duodenum. []
colon; atresia	A congenital malformation characterized by the absence of a normal opening in a part of the colon.
microcolon	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the presence of an abnormally small colon. It is the result of intestinal underutilization during fetal development.
agenesis of gallbladder	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
renal tubular dysgenesis	A developmental defect characterized by absence or poor development of proximal renal tubules. [HPO:probinson]
congenital uterine abnormality	An abnormality of the uterus. [HPO:probinson]
cerebellar hypoplasia	Hypoplasia of the cerebellum that is associated with inherited metabolic disorders and neurodegenerative disorders. Signs and symptoms include mental and developmental delays, walking and balance difficulties, floppy muscle tone, and seizures.
familial visceral myopathy	A rare hereditary myopathic degeneration of both gastrointestinal and urinary tracts that causes chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. It usually presents after the first decade of life with megaduodenum, megacystis and symptoms such as abdominal distension and/or pain, vomiting, constipation, diarrhoea, dysphagia, and/or urinary tract infections.
hereditary hollow viscus myopathy (disorder)	A rare hereditary myopathic degeneration of both gastrointestinal and urinary tracts that causes chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. It usually presents after the first decade of life with megaduodenum, megacystis and symptoms such as abdominal distension and/or pain, vomiting, constipation, diarrhoea, dysphagia, and/or urinary tract infections.
kandori fleck retina syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic retinal dystrophy with characteristics of irregular, sharply defined, yellowish-white lesions of variable size that are distributed mainly in the nasal equatorial region of the retina, with a tendency to confluence, that are not associated with any vascular or optic nerve abnormalities. They frequently manifest as mild and stationary night blindness.
hypoparathyroidism, x-linked	Hypoparathyroidism in which the inheritance is recessive and linked to the q26-q27 region of the X chromosome. The parathyroid glands are usually incompletely developed (parathyroid dysgenesis) or absent (parathyroid agenesis).
syndrome aec	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TP63 gene, encoding tumor protein 63. It is characterized by congenital ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, and cleft lip/palate.
hypochondroplasia	An autosomal dominant disorder that is often caused by a defect in fibroblast growth factor receptor 3, and characterized by short stature, micromelia, and a comparatively large head. The features are milder than those seen in achondroplasia.
jbts	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
cpd4	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-beta-associated monogenic diabetes	Monogenic diabetes caused by inactivating mutation(s) in the gene HNF1B, encoding hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-beta. In addition to diabetes, this condition may be associated with renal cysts and urogenital anomalies. Homozygous HNF1B mutations result in permanent neonatal diabetes.
congenital absence of cervical vertebra	Agenesis of one or more vertebrae of the cervical vertebral column. [HPO:probinson]
trichorhinophalangeal dysplasia type i (disorder)	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial appearance (sparse hair, pear-shaped nose, and elongated philtrum), skeletal abnormalities (cone-shaped epiphyses, hip malformation), short stature, and mild growth retardation.
telencephalic leukoencephalopathy	condition in which there is a deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the white matter of the telencephalon, occurring most frequently in infants and children.
thymus; agenesis	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
craniofacial malformations, asymmetric, with polysyndactyly and abnormal skin and gut development	A form of syndromic craniosynostosis with characteristics of unilateral coronal craniosynostosis or multiple suture synostosis associated with complete or partial agenesis of the corpus callosum, preaxial polysyndactyly and syndactyly of hands and/or feet, along with anomalies of the skin, eyes and intestine. Developmental delay and variable degrees of intellectual disability may also be observed. Multiple intra-abdominal smooth muscle hamartomas, trichoblastoma of the skin, occipital meningocele and development of desmoplastic medulloblastoma have been reported.
eastman-bixler syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, horseshoe kidney, and congenital heart defects. Four cases have been reported in the literature in two unrelated families. Dysmorphic features include plagiocephaly, malar hypoplasia, broad nasal bridge, poorly developed philtrum and nasal alae, cleft palate and hypodontia. Congenital heart defects were endocardial fibroelastosis in one family and prolapse of the tricuspid valve in the other. The condition is probably hereditary and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
kabuki syndrome	A rare, autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene (also known as MLL2) or the KDM6A gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial features including arched eyebrows, long eyelashes, long palpebral fissures with the lower lids turned out at the outside edges, a flat nose, and large protruding earlobes, developmental delay and intellectual disability.
krause-van schooneveld-kivlin syndrome	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the B3GALTL gene. It is characterized by abnormalities in the anterior chamber of the eye, short stature, cleft lip with or without cleft palate, distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.
prominent glabella with microcephaly and hypogenitalism syndrome (disorder)	A very rare syndrome described in two siblings with manifestation of prenatal onset of growth deficiency, microcephaly, hypoplastic genitalia, and birth onset of convulsions.
microcephaly-deafness syndrome	This syndrome has manifestations of microcephaly, deafness, intellectual deficit and facial dysmorphism (facial asymmetry, prominent glabella, low-set and cup-shaped ears, protruding lower lip, micrognathia). It has been described in a mother and her son. The mode of inheritance is probably autosomal dominant.
microcephalus co-occurrent with cervical spine fusion anomaly	A very rare disorder, features include microcephaly, facial dysmorphism (beaked nose, low-set ears, downslanting palpebral fissures, micrognathia), mild intellectual deficit, short stature, and cervical spine fusion anomalies producing spinal cord compression.
feingold syndrome	A rare autosomal dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the MYCN oncogene. It is characterized by microcephaly, limb abnormalities, esophageal and/or duodenal atresia.
najjar syndrome	Syndrome that associates dilated cardiomyopathy with hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. Prevalence is unknown but less than 20 affected families have been described in the literature so far. Occasional findings include a broad nasal base, blepharoptosis, mild intellectual deficit, mild skeletal anomalies and metabolic abnormalities. Mutations in the LMNA gene were recently detected in two sisters with an overlapping clinical phenotype but with additional findings that included a narrow chest, sloping shoulders, aged appearance of the hands and feet and facial dysmorphism (beaked nose and severe retrognathia). Transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
freire maia pinheiro opitz syndrome	A multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of neurological abnormalities (including megalencephaly, hypotonia, intellectual disability, abnormal EEG), dysmorphic facial features (high prominent forehead, grooved nasal tip, ptosis, ear anomalies) and acrorenal defects (such as triphalangism, broad halluces, unilateral renal agenesis). Additionally, intrauterine growth restriction, short stature and congenital heart defects may be associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1997.
absent eyebrows and eyelashes with intellectual disability syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia, microcephaly, and glaucoma, absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes, and a malformation of the nose. It has been described in two brothers.
pseudoprogeria syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia, microcephaly, and glaucoma, absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes, and a malformation of the nose. It has been described in two brothers.
pseudoprogeria syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia, microcephaly, and glaucoma, absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes, and a malformation of the nose. It has been described in two brothers.
van den bosch syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome that is characterized by intellectual deficit, choroideremia, acrokeratosis verruciformis, anhidrosis, and skeletal deformities. It has been observed in a single kindred. The syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked recessive trait and may be caused by a small X-chromosome deletion.
bsg syndrome	An extremely rare multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome, described in three boys from one family. The syndrome has characteristics of intellectual disability, hypertelorism, broad and flat nasal bridge, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism, bifid uvula or partial cleft palate, multiple dental cysts, Schmorl nodes, fused cervical spinous processes, pectus excavatum, and penoscrotal hypospadias. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1971.
congenital absence of trachea (disorder)	Congenital absence of the trachea.
parathyroid; absence, congenital	Aplasia of the parathyroid gland. [HPO:probinson]
retinopathy, anaemia, central nervous system anomalies syndrome	A rare severe phenotypic variant of dyskeratosis congenita with onset in early childhood. The syndrome has features of dyskeratosis congenita (for example skin hyper/hypopigmentation, nail dystrophy, high risk of bone marrow failure and cancer, developmental delay sparse and fine hair) in conjunction with bilateral exudative retinopathy and intracranial calcifications.
hemifacial hyperplasia	Unilateral overgrowth of facial tissues, including muscles, bones and skin. [HPO:probinson]
microspherophakia (disorder)	Lens of the eye is smaller than normal and spherically shaped. []
bilateral renal agenesis	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of both kidneys.
vacterl syndrome	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
vater syndrome	An association of congenital birth defects that includes vertebral abnormalities, anal atresia, cardiac abnormalities, tracheo-esophageal fistula, renal abnormalities, and limb abnormalities.
opitz oculogenitolaryngeal syndrome, type ii	An X-linked syndrome caused by mutations in the MID1 gene or autosomal dominant syndrome caused by changes in chromosome 22. It is characterized by ocular hypertelorism, and defects of the larynx, trachea, or esophagus. Most males have hypospadias, cryptorchidism, underdeveloped scrotum, or a scrotum divided into two lobes. Mild intellectual disability and developmental delays occur in approximately half of the affected individuals.
fdlab (facial dysmorphism, lens dislocation, anterior segment abnormalities, spontaneous filtering bleb) syndrome	A syndromic developmental defect of the eye with characteristics of dislocated or subluxated crystalline lenses, anterior segment abnormalities, and distinctive facial features such as flat cheeks and a prominent, beaked nose. Affected individuals may develop nontraumatic conjunctival cysts, also referred to as filtering blebs. There is evidence the syndrome is caused by homozygous mutation in the ASPH gene on chromosome 8q12.
abds	Syndrome with characteristics of deafness, central hypoventilation, congenital ocular paralysis and developmental retardation. Cardiac anomalies and paralysis of the vocal chords may also be present. Six cases have been reported so far. Transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
oculoauriculofrontonasal syndrome	A rare dysostosis syndrome with characteristics of vertical median craniofacial clefting of fronto-naso-maxillary structures associated with auriculo-mandibular malformations. The syndrome manifests with highly variable craniofacial features which include hypertelorism, eyelid coloboma, orbital dystopia, epibulbar dermoid, nasal anomalies (for example wide nasal bridge, bifid nose, widely separated, slit-like nares, nasal bone dysplasia), auricular and middle ear dysplasia (microtia, aural stenosis, pre-auricular skin tags/pits), cleft lip/palate, mandibular/maxillary hypoplasia and facial asymmetry. Intracranial abnormalities and extra-craniofacial features are frequently associated.
oafns	A rare dysostosis syndrome with characteristics of vertical median craniofacial clefting of fronto-naso-maxillary structures associated with auriculo-mandibular malformations. The syndrome manifests with highly variable craniofacial features which include hypertelorism, eyelid coloboma, orbital dystopia, epibulbar dermoid, nasal anomalies (for example wide nasal bridge, bifid nose, widely separated, slit-like nares, nasal bone dysplasia), auricular and middle ear dysplasia (microtia, aural stenosis, pre-auricular skin tags/pits), cleft lip/palate, mandibular/maxillary hypoplasia and facial asymmetry. Intracranial abnormalities and extra-craniofacial features are frequently associated.
deafness, femoral epiphyseal dysplasia, short stature and developmental delay	This syndrome has characteristics of sensorineural deafness, short stature, femoral epiphyseal dysplasia, umbilical and inguinal hernias and developmental delay (growth retardation and mild intellectual deficit). It has been described in two brothers born to consanguineous parents. They also have dysmorphic features (triangular face, pointed chin) and bilateral obstruction of lacrimal ducts. This syndrome is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
satoyoshi syndrome	A rare multisystemic autoimmune disease mainly characterized by intermittent painful muscle spasms, alopecia (totalis or universalis in most cases) and long-lasting diarrhea that could lead to malnutrition, growth retardation, and amenorrhea. Secondary bone deformities and various endocrine anomalies may also be associated. Antinuclear antibodies are reported in many cases.
familial rectal pain	An autosomal dominant disorder due to a sodium channelopathy and characterized by skin flushing and severe pain. Attacks can start in infancy where the pain is typically concentrated in the lower part of the body, with progression of age the location of pain may change to affect the head and face.
orofaciodigital syndrome type 10	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
ofds x	Syndrome with characteristics of facial (telecanthus, flat nasal bridge, retrognathia), oral (cleft palate, vestibular frenula) and digital (oligodactyly, preaxial polydactyly) features, associated with remarkable radial shortening, fibular agenesis and coalescence of tarsal bones. The syndrome has been described in one 10-month-old girl. No new cases have been described since 1993.
macrosomia obesity macrocephaly ocular abnormalities	A very rare genetic overgrowth/obesity syndrome with characteristics of macrocephaly, obesity, mental (intellectual) disability and ocular abnormalities. Other frequent clinical signs include macrosomia, downslanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, broad nasal root, high and broad forehead and delay in bone maturation, in association with normal thyroid function and karyotype.
mmdk	A rare skeletal disease with characteristics of symmetric shortening of the middle segments of limbs and short stature. It has been described in five families. In the upper limbs, the ulnae are very short, and the radii are bowed. The distal humerus has a dumbbell shape. The hands show progressive flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints. In the lower limbs, feet are fixed in plantar flexion so that the patients walk on their toe tips. All affected patients have normal craniofacial features and intelligence. Two micro duplications have been identified on chromosome 2 (2q31.1-q31.2), separated by a segment of normal copy number. In all families, the condition is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
kantaputra gorlin syndrome	A rare skeletal disease with characteristics of symmetric shortening of the middle segments of limbs and short stature. It has been described in five families. In the upper limbs, the ulnae are very short, and the radii are bowed. The distal humerus has a dumbbell shape. The hands show progressive flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints. In the lower limbs, feet are fixed in plantar flexion so that the patients walk on their toe tips. All affected patients have normal craniofacial features and intelligence. Two micro duplications have been identified on chromosome 2 (2q31.1-q31.2), separated by a segment of normal copy number. In all families, the condition is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
mesomelic dysplasia, thai type	A rare skeletal disease with characteristics of symmetric shortening of the middle segments of limbs and short stature. It has been described in five families. In the upper limbs, the ulnae are very short, and the radii are bowed. The distal humerus has a dumbbell shape. The hands show progressive flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints. In the lower limbs, feet are fixed in plantar flexion so that the patients walk on their toe tips. All affected patients have normal craniofacial features and intelligence. Two micro duplications have been identified on chromosome 2 (2q31.1-q31.2), separated by a segment of normal copy number. In all families, the condition is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
mssd	A novel and distinct form of non-syndromic syndactyly including complete syndactyly of the third and fourth fingers with synostoses of the corresponding metacarpals and associated single phalanges, syndactyly of the second and third toes and fifth finger clinodactyly. It has been described in two families. The locus for this complex limb malformation was mapped to chromosome 17p13.3. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
mesoaxial synostotic syndactyly with phalangeal reduction syndrome (disorder)	A novel and distinct form of non-syndromic syndactyly including complete syndactyly of the third and fourth fingers with synostoses of the corresponding metacarpals and associated single phalanges, syndactyly of the second and third toes and fifth finger clinodactyly. It has been described in two families. The locus for this complex limb malformation was mapped to chromosome 17p13.3. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
epiphyseal dysplasia, multiple, with severe proximal femoral dysplasia	A rare primary bone dysplasia characterized by severe early-onset dysplasia of the proximal femurs, with almost complete absence of the secondary ossification centers and abnormal development of the femoral necks (short and broad with irregular metaphyses). It is associated with gait abnormality, mild short stature, arthralgia, and joint stiffness with limited mobility of the hips and irregular acetabula, and hip and knee pain. Coxa vara and mild spinal changes are also associated.
branchiogenic deafness syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital anomalies syndrome, described in one family to date, with characteristics of branchial cysts or fistula, ear malformations, congenital hearing loss (conductive, sensorineural, and mixed), internal auditory canal hypoplasia, strabismus, trismus, abnormal fifth fingers, vitiliginous lesions, short stature and mild learning disability. Renal and urethral abnormalities are absent.
czech dysplasia	A form of skeletal dysplasia with characteristics of severe arthropathy beginning in childhood and hypoplasia/dysplasia of the third, fourth and/or fifth toes. So far, less than 20 patients have been reported, including multiple members of five families from the Czech Republic. Stature and intelligence are normal. Radiographs reveal platyspondyly, irregular vertebral endplates, deformed femoral heads, pelvic dysplasia and narrowed intervertebral spaces. Mutations in the COL2A1 gene have been detected in several of the reported patients. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
acfs - acrocardiofacial syndrome	A rare genetic disorder characterized by split-hand/split-foot malformation (SHFM), facial anomalies, cleft lip/palate, congenital heart defect (CHD), genital anomalies, and intellectual deficit.
hypertrichosis, congenital anterior cervical	Anterior cervical hypertrichosis (ACH) or 'hairy throat' refers to the presence of a tuft of terminal hair on the anterior neck, just above the laryngeal prominence. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20400390]
hairy throat	Anterior cervical hypertrichosis (ACH) or 'hairy throat' refers to the presence of a tuft of terminal hair on the anterior neck, just above the laryngeal prominence. [HPO:probinson, PMID:20400390]
short tarsus with absence of lower eyelashes	A very rare syndrome with the association of thin and short upper and lower tarsus and absence of the lower eyelashes. It has been described in 11 patients from a four-generation family. There is no other unusual feature. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
lopes gorlin syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the association of thin and short upper and lower tarsus and absence of the lower eyelashes. It has been described in 11 patients from a four-generation family. There is no other unusual feature. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
skeletal abnormality, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, retardation, facial abnormality syndrome	Syndrome with the association of skeletal abnormalities, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, psychomotor retardation and facial abnormalities. So far, it has been described in two males (maternal first cousins). The mode of inheritance was suggested to be X-linked recessive.
coxopodopatellar syndrome	A very rare benign bone dysplasia affecting skeletal structures of the lower limb and the pelvis. Less than 50 patients have been reported worldwide. The main clinical features include patellar aplasia or hypoplasia, associated with absent, delayed or irregular ossification of the ischiopubic junctions and/or the infra-acetabular axe-cut notches. Additional features found in the majority of reported patients include femur and foot anomalies. Craniofacial anomalies have been reported occasionally. Inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and is caused by mutations in the human TBX4 gene (chromosome 17q22). TBX4 mutations account for familial cases with a distinctive facial appearance and those without facial features.
ischiopatellar dysplasia	A very rare benign bone dysplasia affecting skeletal structures of the lower limb and the pelvis. Less than 50 patients have been reported worldwide. The main clinical features include patellar aplasia or hypoplasia, associated with absent, delayed or irregular ossification of the ischiopubic junctions and/or the infra-acetabular axe-cut notches. Additional features found in the majority of reported patients include femur and foot anomalies. Craniofacial anomalies have been reported occasionally. Inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and is caused by mutations in the human TBX4 gene (chromosome 17q22). TBX4 mutations account for familial cases with a distinctive facial appearance and those without facial features.
scott-taor syndrome	A very rare benign bone dysplasia affecting skeletal structures of the lower limb and the pelvis. Less than 50 patients have been reported worldwide. The main clinical features include patellar aplasia or hypoplasia, associated with absent, delayed or irregular ossification of the ischiopubic junctions and/or the infra-acetabular axe-cut notches. Additional features found in the majority of reported patients include femur and foot anomalies. Craniofacial anomalies have been reported occasionally. Inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and is caused by mutations in the human TBX4 gene (chromosome 17q22). TBX4 mutations account for familial cases with a distinctive facial appearance and those without facial features.
single midline maxillary incisor	A single maxillary central incisor positioned in the midline with morphological symmetry of the crown and bordered by lateral incisors. [PMID:19125428]
ice (ichthyosis cheek eyebrow) syndrome	This syndrome has features of ichthyosis, prominent full cheeks and sparse lateral eyebrows. It has been described in several individuals from four generations of one family. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
hypotrichosis, spanish type	Hypotrichosis simplex of the scalp (HSS) has manifestation of diffuse progressive hair loss that is confined to the scalp. Prevalence is unknown but HSS has been described in multiple members (males and females) of several large families. Progressive hair loss generally begins during the first decade of life and most patients are completely bald by the third decade of life. Body, axillary and facial hair, as well as the eyebrows and eyelashes are unaffected. There are no anomalies of the skin, nails and teeth. The causative gene CDSN (encoding the keratinocyte adhesion molecule, corneodesmosin) has been mapped to chromosome 6p21.3. Transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner.
hyperostosis cranialis interna	Bony overgrowth of the internal (endosteal) surface of the calvaria and the base of skull. [HPO:probinson]
goniodysgenesis with mental deficiency and short stature	An extremely rare syndrome involving goniodysgenesis, intellectual disability and short stature in addition to microcephaly, short nose, small hands and ears, and that has been seen in one family to date. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
vertebral ossification, defect in, with nephrogenic rests	Diaphanospondylodysostosis has characteristics of absent ossification of the vertebral bodies and sacrum associated with variable anomalies. It has been described in less than ten patients from different families. Manifestations include a short neck, a short wide thorax, a reduced number of ribs, a narrow pelvis, and inconstant anomalies such as myelomeningocele, cystic kidneys with nephrogenic rests and cleft palate. As some patients were born to consanguineous parents, this disorder is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. The patients are stillborn or die soon after birth of respiratory insufficiency.
diaphanospondylodysostosis	Diaphanospondylodysostosis has characteristics of absent ossification of the vertebral bodies and sacrum associated with variable anomalies. It has been described in less than ten patients from different families. Manifestations include a short neck, a short wide thorax, a reduced number of ribs, a narrow pelvis, and inconstant anomalies such as myelomeningocele, cystic kidneys with nephrogenic rests and cleft palate. As some patients were born to consanguineous parents, this disorder is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. The patients are stillborn or die soon after birth of respiratory insufficiency.
acrocapitofemoral dysplasia	A skeletal dysplasia with clinical characteristics of short stature of variable degrees with short limbs, brachydactyly and narrow thorax. Affected patients have normal intelligence. Radiographically, cone-shaped epiphyses are observed in the hands, the proximal part of the femur and to a variable degree, at the shoulders, knees, and ankles. Homozygous mutations in the Indian hedgehog homolog gene (IHH; 2q33-q35), outside the region where brachydactyly type A-1 mutations are clustered, have been identified in affected patients. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
curly hair, acral keratoderma, caries syndrome	An extremely rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of premature loss of curly, brittle, dry hair, premature loss of teeth due to caries, nail dystrophy with thickening of the finger and toe-nails, acral keratoderma and hypohidrosis. Additionally, sparse eyebrows and eyelashes, receding frontal hairline and flattened malar region are associated. The severity of features appears to increase with age.
branchial arch syndrome, x-linked	An extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that has characteristics of microcephaly, malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures, highly arched palate, apparently low-set and protruding ears, micrognathia, short stature, bilateral hearing loss, and learning disability. Occasionally, additional features have been observed such as bilateral cryptorchidism, cardiac valvular lesions, body asymmetry, and pectus excavatum.
branchial arch syndrome x-linked	An extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that has characteristics of microcephaly, malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures, highly arched palate, apparently low-set and protruding ears, micrognathia, short stature, bilateral hearing loss, and learning disability. Occasionally, additional features have been observed such as bilateral cryptorchidism, cardiac valvular lesions, body asymmetry, and pectus excavatum.
mandibulofacial dysostosis, toriello type	An extremely rare multiple congenital abnormality syndrome that has characteristics of microcephaly, malar hypoplasia with downslanting palpebral fissures, highly arched palate, apparently low-set and protruding ears, micrognathia, short stature, bilateral hearing loss, and learning disability. Occasionally, additional features have been observed such as bilateral cryptorchidism, cardiac valvular lesions, body asymmetry, and pectus excavatum.
holoprosencephaly, ectrodactyly, and bilateral cleft lip-palate	A rare disease with characteristics of holoprosencephaly and ectrodactyly. Holoprosencephaly occurs during early fetal development with failure of the brain to divide into the left and right hemisphere. In the most severe forms of holoprosencephaly, the brain does not divide at all. These affected individuals have cyclopia and proboscis located above the eye. Most babies with severe holoprosencephaly die before birth or soon after. Other manifestations include malfunctioning pituitary, seizures, feeding difficulties, developmental delay and problems regulating body temperature and sleep pattern. Some affected individuals have distinctive facial features, including hypertelorism, hypotelorism, cleft lip, cleft palate. Can be caused by mutations in the FGFR1 gene.
mental retardation, x-linked, syndromic 20	MEHMO syndrome has characteristics of severe intellectual deficit, epilepsy, microcephaly, hypogenitalism and obesity. Growth delay and diabetes are also present. To date, it has been described in seven boys, all of who died within the first two years of life. The causative gene has been located to the 21.1-22.13p region of the X chromosome and the syndrome appears to result from mitochondrial dysfunction.
vmos	A rare genetic vascular anomaly with characteristics of severe blood vessel expansion most frequently within the craniofacial bones with painless bone enlargement usually of mandibula, maxilla and/or orbital, nasal and frontal bones. This typically results in facial asymmetry and contour deformation. Midline abnormalities, such as diastasis recti, supraumbilical raphe, and hiatus hernia, are commonly associated. Additional features reported include gingival bleeding, ectopic tooth eruption, exophthalmos and loss of vision, nausea, and vomiting. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the ELMO2 gene on chromosome 20q13.
primary intraosseous venous malformation	A rare genetic vascular anomaly with characteristics of severe blood vessel expansion most frequently within the craniofacial bones with painless bone enlargement usually of mandibula, maxilla and/or orbital, nasal and frontal bones. This typically results in facial asymmetry and contour deformation. Midline abnormalities, such as diastasis recti, supraumbilical raphe, and hiatus hernia, are commonly associated. Additional features reported include gingival bleeding, ectopic tooth eruption, exophthalmos and loss of vision, nausea, and vomiting. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the ELMO2 gene on chromosome 20q13.
familial digital arthropathy-brachydactyly	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TRPV4 gene, encoding transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4. It is characterized by interphalangeal, metacarpophalangeal, and metatarsophalangeal joint deformity and painful osteoarthritis becoming apparent during the first decade of life.
fdab	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the TRPV4 gene, encoding transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4. It is characterized by interphalangeal, metacarpophalangeal, and metatarsophalangeal joint deformity and painful osteoarthritis becoming apparent during the first decade of life.
intellectual disability, obesity, prognathism, eye and skin anomalies syndrome	A rare genetic syndromic intellectual disability disorder with characteristics of mild to profound intellectual disability, delayed speech, obesity, ocular anomalies (blepharophimosis, blepharoptosis, hyperopic astigmatism, decreased visual acuity, strabismus, abducens nerve palsy, and/or accommodative esotropia), and dermal manifestations, such as chronic atopic dermatitis. Associated craniofacial dysmorphism includes macrocephaly, maxillary hypoplasia, mandibular prognathism and crowding of teeth.
multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, autosomal recessive	A multiple epiphyseal dysplasia with a late-childhood onset manifesting as joint pain involving hips, knees, wrists and fingers with occasional limitation of joint movements, deformity of hands, feet, and knees, scoliosis and slightly reduced adult height. Follows an autosomal recessive mode of transmission
hypoplasia of the right ventricle	A rare congenital heart malformation with characteristics of underdevelopment of the right ventricle associated with patent foramen ovale or interauricular communication and normally developed tricuspid and pulmonary valves. Manifests with severe cyanosis, congestive heart failure, and in severe cases, death in early infancy.
schinzel phocomelia syndrome	Skeletal malformations affecting the ulnae, pelvic bones, fibulae and femora. Only a few cases have been described. Patients have intercalary limb deficiencies (phocomelia sometimes combined with polydactyly, oligodactyly or ectrodactyly), absent or hypoplastic pelvic bones (including sacral agenesis or hypoplasia) and skull defects. Additional features may include thoracic dystrophy, unusual facies (dysplastic and large ears, and a high and narrow palate), and genital malformations.Growth and mental development are normal.
thymic-renal-anal-lung dysplasia	This syndrome has characteristics of intrauterine growth retardation, renal dysgenesis and a unilobed or absent thymus. It has been described in three girls born to a nonconsanguineous couple.
thoracomelic dysplasia	An extremely rare primary bone dysplasia disorder characterised by a bell-shaped thorax, disproportionate short stature, pelvic hypoplasia, dislocatable radial heads and elongated distal fibulae. Acetabular spurs and phalangeal cone-shaped epiphyses are not present and osseous manifestations tend to normalise with age. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
thoracic dysplasia-hydrocephalus syndrome	An extremely rare primary bone dysplasia syndrome with characteristics of short ribs with a narrow chest and thoracic dysplasia, mild rhizomelic shortening of the limbs, communicating hydrocephalus and developmental delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
craniofacial anomalies, abnormal hair, camptodactyly, and caudal appendage	A rare genetic development defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome with the association of characteristic facial features (including abnormal head shape with narrow forehead, hypertelorism, telecanthus, small earlobes, broad nasal bridge and tip, underdeveloped ala nasi, small/wide mouth and high/cleft palate), ectodermal dysplasia (including oligodontia with delayed dentition, slow growing hair and reduced sweating) and skeletal abnormalities including camptodactyly and caudal appendage. Short stature and abnormal palmar creases are additional clinical features.
teebi shaltout syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic development defect during embryogenesis malformation syndrome with the association of characteristic facial features (including abnormal head shape with narrow forehead, hypertelorism, telecanthus, small earlobes, broad nasal bridge and tip, underdeveloped ala nasi, small/wide mouth and high/cleft palate), ectodermal dysplasia (including oligodontia with delayed dentition, slow growing hair and reduced sweating) and skeletal abnormalities including camptodactyly and caudal appendage. Short stature and abnormal palmar creases are additional clinical features.
brachyolmia, toledo type	An autosomal recessive form of brachyolmia a group of rare genetic skeletal disorders, with features of short stature, short trunk, platyspondyly and corneal opacities.
spondylocostal dysostosis with anal atresia and urogenital anomalies	Syndrome with the association of spondylocostal dysostosis with anal and genitourinary malformations (anal atresia and agenesis of external and internal genitalia). To date, only four cases have been described in the literature.
renal dysplasia - limb defects syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of renal dysplasia, growth retardation, phocomelia or mesomelia, radiohumeral fusion, rib abnormalities, anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter-like facies. The syndrome has been described in three infants, all of whom died shortly after birth from respiratory distress resulting from pulmonary hypoplasia and oligohydramnios caused by renal dysplasia. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
renal dysplasia, mesomelia, radiohumeral fusion syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of renal dysplasia, growth retardation, phocomelia or mesomelia, radiohumeral fusion, rib abnormalities, anomalies of the external genitalia and a potter-like facies. The syndrome has been described in three infants, all of whom died shortly after birth from respiratory distress resulting from pulmonary hypoplasia and oligohydramnios caused by renal dysplasia. The mode of transmission appears to be autosomal recessive.
bartsocas-papas syndrome	A rare inherited popliteal pterygium syndrome with characteristics of severe popliteal webbing, microcephaly, a typical face with short palpebral fissures, ankyloblepharon, hypoplastic nose, filiform bands between the jaws and facial clefts, genital abnormalities and additional ectodermal anomalies (absent hair, eyebrows, lashes, nails). It is often fatal in the neonatal period but survival into childhood has been reported.
polysyndactyly and cardiac malformation syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of polysyndactyly, hexadactyly (duplication of the first toe) and complex cardiac malformation (including atrial and ventricular septal defect, single ventricle, aortic dextroposition, or dilation of the right heart). It has been described in six patients from three unrelated families. Other manifestations were present in some patients (i.e. facial dysmorphism, hepatic cysts).
pterygia, heart anomaly, autosomal recessive inheritance, vertebral defect, ear anomaly, radial defect syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the association of limb pterygia, heart anomalies, autosomal recessive inheritance, vertebral defects, ear anomalies and radial defects. It has been described in two siblings. One of the siblings also had a myelomeningocele. The reported cases suggest the condition is hereditary with probable autosomal recessive inheritance.
pelviscapular dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of pelviscapular dysplasia with epiphyseal abnormalities, congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism. The facial dysmorphism has manifestations of frontal bossing, hypertelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, deep-set eyes, strabismus, low-set posteriorly rotated and malformed ears, dysplasia of conchae, a small chin, a short neck with redundant skin folds, and a low hairline. Intelligence may vary from normal to moderately impaired. Radiographic features comprise aplasia of the body of the scapula, hypoplasia of the iliac bone, humeroradial synostosis, dislocation of the femoral heads, and moderate brachydactyly. Mutations in the TBX15 gene have been identified as potentially causative. Pelviscapular dysplasia is phenotypically similar to pelvis-shoulder dysplasia.
familial pelvis-scapular dysplasia	Syndrome with characteristics of pelviscapular dysplasia with epiphyseal abnormalities, congenital dwarfism and facial dysmorphism. The facial dysmorphism has manifestations of frontal bossing, hypertelorism, narrow palpebral fissures, deep-set eyes, strabismus, low-set posteriorly rotated and malformed ears, dysplasia of conchae, a small chin, a short neck with redundant skin folds, and a low hairline. Intelligence may vary from normal to moderately impaired. Radiographic features comprise aplasia of the body of the scapula, hypoplasia of the iliac bone, humeroradial synostosis, dislocation of the femoral heads, and moderate brachydactyly. Mutations in the TBX15 gene have been identified as potentially causative. Pelviscapular dysplasia is phenotypically similar to pelvis-shoulder dysplasia.
postaxial polydactyly and mental retardation	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, postaxial polydactyly and epilepsy. To date, seven individuals in three families have been reported. Facial features are not characteristic except for a prominent jaw. Concordant features in all subjects are postaxial polydactyly, which in four individuals affect also the feet, and intellectual deficit, which is usually severe, with absent or indistinct speech. Seizures are common with onset in the first months of life or in early childhood. Cutaneous syndactyly, camptodactyly and clinodactyly of fingers and brachydactyly and syndactyly of the toes have been recorded.
oliver syndrome	A very rare syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, postaxial polydactyly and epilepsy. To date, seven individuals in three families have been reported. Facial features are not characteristic except for a prominent jaw. Concordant features in all subjects are postaxial polydactyly, which in four individuals affect also the feet, and intellectual deficit, which is usually severe, with absent or indistinct speech. Seizures are common with onset in the first months of life or in early childhood. Cutaneous syndactyly, camptodactyly and clinodactyly of fingers and brachydactyly and syndactyly of the toes have been recorded.
mirror-image polydactyly	A hand or foot with more than five digits that has a recognizable A/P axis of symmetry. The axis can lie within a normally formed or partially duplicated digit resembling a middle finger, index finger, thumb, toe, or hallux. Alternatively, the axis can be in an interdigital space with a flanking pair of digits that resemble a middle finger, index finger, thumb, toe or hallux. The most lateral digits on each side of the hand typically resemble fifth fingers/toes. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:19125433]
calvarial doughnut lesions with bone fragility	This syndrome has characteristics of multiple doughnut-shaped hyperostotic or osteosclerotic lesions of the calvaria. It has been observed in approximately 20 individuals. Clinical manifestations include the presence of cranial lumps, numerous pathologic fractures, elevated serum alkaline phosphatase levels, and dental caries. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
cryptomicrotia brachydactyly syndrome	This syndrome describes a combination of malformations that include bilateral cryptomicrotia (recessed, hidden and small or absent ears), brachytelomesophalangy with short middle and distal phalanges of digits two through five, hypoplastic toenails and excess fingertip arch patterns. The syndrome has been reported in one family (mother and son). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
coxoauricular syndrome	An extremely rare primary bone defect described only in a mother and her three daughters to date. The disease has characteristics of short stature, hip dislocation, minor vertebral and pelvic changes and microtia with hearing loss. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
congenital short costocoracoid ligament	A rare anomaly with characteristics of fixation of the scapula to the first rib, resulting in a cosmetic deformity with rounding of the shoulders and loss of the anterior clavicular contour. It has been described only once in several members of a single family from Canada. The abnormality resulted in a strong pectoral girdle with lack of mobility. Movements requiring rotation or retraction of the scapula were limited, but this does not normally interfere with daily activities.
agenesis of macula	A congenital defect of the macula distinct from coloboma associated with optic fissure closure defects. Macular coloboma is characterized by a sharply defined, rather large defect in the central area of the fundus that is oval or round, and coarsely pigmented. [DDD:gblack, PMID:15069441]
deafness with lamm	A genetic transmission deafness syndrome. The profound congenital deafness is associated with a complete absence of inner ear structures (Michel aplasia) microtia type I with small auricle and narrow external auditory canal and microdontia with widely spaced teeth. Linkage analysis followed by sequencing of candidate genes led to identification of three different homozygous mutations in the FGF3 gene (11q13). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
sclerocornea	A congenital anomaly in which a part or the whole of the cornea acquires the characteristics of sclera, resulting in clouding of the cornea. [HPO:probinson]
mesomelic dysplasia with absent fibulas and triangular tibias	Severely hypoplastic and triangular-shaped tibiae and absence of the fibulae.Two sporadic cases have been described. Moderate mesomelia of the upper limbs, proximal widening of the ulnas, pelvic anomalies and marked bilateral glenoid hypoplasia also reported.
mesomelic dysplasia savarirayan type (disorder)	Severely hypoplastic and triangular-shaped tibiae and absence of the fibulae.Two sporadic cases have been described. Moderate mesomelia of the upper limbs, proximal widening of the ulnas, pelvic anomalies and marked bilateral glenoid hypoplasia also reported.
mesomelic dysplasia, savarirayan type	Severely hypoplastic and triangular-shaped tibiae and absence of the fibulae.Two sporadic cases have been described. Moderate mesomelia of the upper limbs, proximal widening of the ulnas, pelvic anomalies and marked bilateral glenoid hypoplasia also reported.
fatco syndrome	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation syndrome with characteristics of unilateral or bilateral fibular aplasia/hypoplasia, tibial campomelia, and lower limb oligo-syndactyly involving the lateral rays. Upper limb oligo-syndactyly and cleft lip/palate may also be associated.
lambert syndrome	A very rare syndrome described in four siblings of one French family and with characteristics of branchial dysplasia (malar hypoplasia, macrostomia, preauricular tags and meatal atresia), club feet, inguinal hernia and cholestasis due to paucity of interlobular bile ducts and intellectual deficit.
jagell holmgren hofer syndrome	An ectodermal dysplasia syndrome characterised by severe generalised lamellar icthyosis at birth with alopecia, eclabium, ectropion and intellectual disability. Although similar to Sjogren-Larsson syndrome, this syndrome lacks the presence of neurologic or macular changes. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1987.
game friedman paradice syndrome	A rare developmental disorder described in 4 siblings so far. Main characteristics include delayed fetal growth, hydrocephaly with patent aqueduct of Sylvius, underdeveloped lungs and various other anomalies such as small jaw, intestinal malrotation, shortness of lower limbs, bowed tibias and foot deformities.
holzgreve syndrome	An extremely rare lethal multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of renal agenesis with Potter sequence, cleft lip/palate, oral synechiae, cardiac defects, and skeletal abnormalities including postaxial polydactyly. Intestinal nonfixation and intrauterine growth restriction are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
fibuloulnar aplasia or hypoplasia with renal abnormalities	This syndrome has features of fibuloulnar dysostosis with renal anomalies. It has been described in two siblings born to nonconsanguinous parents. The syndrome is lethal at birth (respiratory failure). Clinical manifestations include ear and facial anomalies (including micrognathia), symmetrical shortness of long bones, fibular agenesis and hypoplastic ulna, oligosyndactyly, congenital heart defects, and cystic or hypoplastic kidney. It is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
du pan syndrome	Severe reduction or absence of the fibula and complex brachydactyly. The syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the cartilage-derived morphogenetic protein-1 gene.
gollop-wolfgang complex	A very rare malformation with main features of ectrodactyly of the hand and ipsilateral bifurcation of the femur. Approximately 200 cases have been reported worldwide. Congenital aplasia/hypoplasia of the tibia, accompanied by pre-axial oligodactyly or monodactyly of the feet, may also be present. In most cases, the bifurcation of the distal femur is unilateral. Patients are often small. Autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive modes of transmission have been suggested.
bifid femur co-occurrent with monodactylous ectrodactyly	A very rare malformation with main features of ectrodactyly of the hand and ipsilateral bifurcation of the femur. Approximately 200 cases have been reported worldwide. Congenital aplasia/hypoplasia of the tibia, accompanied by pre-axial oligodactyly or monodactyly of the feet, may also be present. In most cases, the bifurcation of the distal femur is unilateral. Patients are often small. Autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive modes of transmission have been suggested.
coach (cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, oligophrenia, congenital ataxia, coloboma, hepatic fibrosis) syndrome	A very rare subtype of Joubert syndrome with the neurological features of Joubert Syndrome and congenital hepatic fibrosis. Prevalence is unknown. The age of onset and severity of hepatic manifestations are variable. Some patients may also present chorioretinal or optic nerve colobomas and nephronophthisis but these are not mandatory features. Over 70% of cases are due to mutations in the TMEM67 gene (8q22.1).
choroid plexus calcification and mental retardation	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual deficit, calcification of the choroid plexus and elevated levels of cerebrospinal fluid protein. It has been described in two sibships from two unrelated families. The seven children of one of the sibships were born to consanguineous parents. Some patients also had strabismus, hyperactive deep tendon reflexes and foot deformities.
oculoosteocutaneous syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital anodontia, a small maxilla, short stature with shortened metacarpals and metatarsals, sparse hair, albinoidism and multiple ocular anomalies. It has been described in three siblings (one brother and two sisters). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
oculoosteocutaneous syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of congenital anodontia, a small maxilla, short stature with shortened metacarpals and metatarsals, sparse hair, albinoidism and multiple ocular anomalies. It has been described in three siblings (one brother and two sisters). Transmission is autosomal recessive.
microcephalic primordial dwarfism montreal type (disorder)	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of severe short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism (microcephaly, narrow face with flat cheeks, ptosis, prominent nose with a convex ridge, low-set ears with small or absent lobes, high-arched/cleft palate, micrognathia), associated with premature graying and loss of scalp hair, redundant, dry and wrinkled skin of the palms, premature senility and varying degrees of intellectual disability. Cryptorchidism and skeletal anomalies may also be observed. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1970.
hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bone syndrome (disorder)	A lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first-cousin parents with characteristics of hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bones and unusual facies with down-slanting palpebral fissures, bulbous nose, broad nasal bridge, micrognathia and a long upper lip. Transmission is likely autosomal recessive. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1984.
beemer ertbruggen syndrome	A lethal malformation syndrome reported in 2 brothers of first-cousin parents with characteristics of hydrocephalus, cardiac malformation, dense bones and unusual facies with down-slanting palpebral fissures, bulbous nose, broad nasal bridge, micrognathia and a long upper lip. Transmission is likely autosomal recessive. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1984.
atrichia with papular lesions (disorder)	The patients are born with hair that falls out and is not replaced. Histologic studies show malformation of the hair follicles. Papillary lesions over most of the body and almost complete absence of hair are features.
aphalangy, hemivertebra, urogenital, intestinal dysgenesis syndrome	An extremely rare congenital limb malformation syndrome, described in only 3 patients to date with the association of hypoplasia or aplasia of the hand and foot phalanges, hemivertebrae and various urogenital and/or intestinal abnormalities (i.e. dysgenesis of the urogenital tract and rectum). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1991.
castro gago pombo novo syndrome	A very rare syndrome associating microcephaly, micrognathia, oculocutaneous albinism, hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fingers and agenesia of the distal end of the right big toe. It has been described in two siblings. Both brother and sister had psychomotor retardation and died in the course of a respiratory infection. The reported cases suggest that the condition is hereditary, and is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
agonadism with multiple internal malformations	PAGOD syndrome is a severe developmental syndrome with characteristics of multiple congenital anomalies including cardiovascular defects, pulmonary hypoplasia, diaphragmatic defects and genital anomalies. Since the first publication in 1991, only 11 patients have been described. Neonates with PAGOD syndrome present with several visceral anomalies: hypoplasia of right or left lung, diaphragmatic hernia, omphalocele, various cardiac anomalies including, amongst others atrial septal defect, left ventricular hypoplasia or ventricular septal defect and great vessels anomalies such as aortic hypoplasia and pulmonary artery hypoplasia or atresia. Cardiac and mediastinal structures may be in dextroposition. Ambiguous external genitalia can be observed in some cases and all patient's present gonadal agenesis or hypoplasia and developmental anomalies of Wolffian and Mullerian duct structures. Vitamin A deficiency has been suggested to play a role in the development of the syndrome. Almost all cases are sporadic.
split-hand and split-foot with mandibular hypoplasia	A very rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with characteristics of limb deficiencies and renal anomalies that include split hand-split foot malformation, renal agenesis, polycystic kidneys, uterine anomalies and severe mandibular hypoplasia.
bork syndrome	An autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndrome, with characteristics of uncombable hair syndrome, congenital hypotrichosis and dental abnormalities such as oligodontia or hyperdontia and associated with early-onset cataract, retinal pigmentary dystrophy and brachydactyly with brachymetacarpia. Furthermore, hyperactivity and a mild intellectual deficit have been reported in affected patients.
mesomelic dwarfism of hypoplastic ulna and fibula type	Disproportionate short stature present from birth with dysplasia of the ulna and fibula. Curvatures of the forearm, radial head luxation, and tibial anomalies have also been described. The syndrome is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner.
trochlea of the humerus, aplasia of	An extremely rare familial bone deformity described only in Japanese patients to date. The deformity is bilateral in nearly half of patients (with bilateral involvement, the condition is symmetrical) and sometimes causes ulnar nerve palsy or cubitus varus.
triphalangeal thumb with brachyectrodactyly syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of triphalangeal thumbs and brachydactyly of the hands. Ectrodactyly of the feet and, more rarely, ectrodactyly of the hands were also reported in some family members. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
triphalangeal thumb and dislocation of patella syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of triphalangeal thumbs, brachydactyly, camptodactyly, recurrent dislocation of the patellas and relatively short stature. It has been described in a mother and her three daughters.
thoracolaryngopelvic dysplasia syndrome (disorder)	A short-rib dysplasia with characteristics of thoracic dystrophy, laryngeal stenosis and a small pelvis. Less than 10 cases have been reported in the literature so far. Patients present with severe respiratory distress (requiring intubation) during the neonatal period. The rib shortening is less severe than in Jeune syndrome and the thorax is characteristically small, narrow and bell-shaped. The pelvis is reduced in all dimensions and the combination of the thorax anomalies and the small pelvis give the appearance of a protruding abdomen. Subglottic stenosis has also been described but it remains unclear whether this is a congenital anomaly or is secondary to long-term intubation. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
tlpd	A short-rib dysplasia with characteristics of thoracic dystrophy, laryngeal stenosis and a small pelvis. Less than 10 cases have been reported in the literature so far. Patients present with severe respiratory distress (requiring intubation) during the neonatal period. The rib shortening is less severe than in Jeune syndrome and the thorax is characteristically small, narrow and bell-shaped. The pelvis is reduced in all dimensions and the combination of the thorax anomalies and the small pelvis give the appearance of a protruding abdomen. Subglottic stenosis has also been described but it remains unclear whether this is a congenital anomaly or is secondary to long-term intubation. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
sommer hines syndrome	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of the presence of a single digit on all four extremities. The malformation is typically isolated however, aplastic and hypoplastic defects in the remaining skeletal parts of hands and feet have been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
brachydactyly with joint dysplasia	Syndrome with abnormal development of the arms resulting in characteristic arm malformations that can vary in severity. Bones in the elbows are abnormally shaped which affects mobility of the joints. Wrist bones are fused forming structures that resemble those in the ankles and heels and causing permanent radial deviation. The metacarpals are longer than normal along with brachydactyly. Life expectancy is normal. The syndrome is caused by genetic changes near the PITX1 gene. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
liebenberg syndrome	Syndrome with abnormal development of the arms resulting in characteristic arm malformations that can vary in severity. Bones in the elbows are abnormally shaped which affects mobility of the joints. Wrist bones are fused forming structures that resemble those in the ankles and heels and causing permanent radial deviation. The metacarpals are longer than normal along with brachydactyly. Life expectancy is normal. The syndrome is caused by genetic changes near the PITX1 gene. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
synostosis, carpal, with dysplastic elbow joints and brachydactyly	Syndrome with abnormal development of the arms resulting in characteristic arm malformations that can vary in severity. Bones in the elbows are abnormally shaped which affects mobility of the joints. Wrist bones are fused forming structures that resemble those in the ankles and heels and causing permanent radial deviation. The metacarpals are longer than normal along with brachydactyly. Life expectancy is normal. The syndrome is caused by genetic changes near the PITX1 gene. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
lbnbg	Syndrome with abnormal development of the arms resulting in characteristic arm malformations that can vary in severity. Bones in the elbows are abnormally shaped which affects mobility of the joints. Wrist bones are fused forming structures that resemble those in the ankles and heels and causing permanent radial deviation. The metacarpals are longer than normal along with brachydactyly. Life expectancy is normal. The syndrome is caused by genetic changes near the PITX1 gene. Inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
polysyndactyly, haas type	A very rare congenital distal limb malformation with characteristics of complete bilateral syndactyly involving all digits 1 to 5. So far, only four reports have been described in the literature. A frequent association with polydactyly (with six metacarpals and six digits) has been reported. Feet are affected occasionally. The SD4 locus maps to 7q36. The condition is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
syndactyly, type iv	A very rare congenital distal limb malformation with characteristics of complete bilateral syndactyly involving all digits 1 to 5. So far, only four reports have been described in the literature. A frequent association with polydactyly (with six metacarpals and six digits) has been reported. Feet are affected occasionally. The SD4 locus maps to 7q36. The condition is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
syndactyly, type iii	A rare congenital distal limb malformation with complete and bilateral syndactyly between the fourth and fifth fingers. In most cases, it is a soft tissue syndactyly, but occasionally the distal phalanges may be fused. The feet are not affected. Inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
cleidorhizomelic syndrome	A rhizo-mesomelic dysplasia with characteristics of rhizomelic short stature in combination with lateral clavicular defects. Additional manifestations include brachydactyly with bilateral clinodactyly and hypoplastic middle phalanx of the fifth digit. The syndrome has been reported in one family (mother and son) and is suspected to be transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
ofc1	Cleft lip with or without cleft palate mapped to chromosome 6p24.
cervical vertebral dysplasia	Dysplasia of the cervical vertebral column. [HPO:probinson]
banki syndrome	A synostosis syndrome reported in a single Hungarian family in which members of 3 generations showed lunotriquetral synostosis, clinodactyly, clinometacarpy, brachymetacarpy and leptometacarpy (thin diaphysis). It appeared to be a unique dominant mutation. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1965.
anonychia and absence-hypoplasia of distal phalanges	A rare malformation syndrome affecting the apical structures of digits and presenting with hypo/aplasia of nails and distal phalanges. Cooks syndrome is congenital and presents with hypo/anonychia, small or absent distal phalanges and digitalization of the thumbs. Usually, the nails of digits 1-3 are progressively deformed, with anonychia congenita totalis in the digits 4-5 and in all toes. Additional features include hypoplasia of the distal phalanges in digits 2-4 with absence of the distal phalanx of digit 5. In the feet, there is absence of all distal phalanges of digits 2-5 with hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of digit 1.
arhinia, choanal atresia, and microphthalmia	A malformation disorder with characteristics of complete or incomplete absence of nose, choanal atresia, microphthalmia, anophthalmia and cleft or high palate.
cap syndrome	A very rare condition with characteristics of craniosynostosis and clavicular hypoplasia, delayed closure of the fontanelle, anal anomalies, genitourinary malformations and skin eruptions. It has been described in seven patients from four unrelated families. Cranial abnormalities include a coronal synostosis with wide-open anterior and posterior fontanelles and large parietal foramina. In some patients the skin eruption has been classified as porokeratosis. Sensorineural hearing loss and mild to severe developmental delay are common. The condition is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
14q22q23 microdeletion syndrome	A rare partial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 14 with characteristics of ocular anomalies (anophthalmia/microphthalmia, ptosis, hypertelorism, exophthalmos), pituitary anomalies (pituitary hypoplasia/aplasia with growth hormone deficiency and growth retardation) and hand/foot anomalies (polydactyly, short digits, pes cavus). Other clinical features may include muscular hypotonia, psychomotor development delay/intellectual disability, dysmorphic signs (facial asymmetry, microretrognathia, high-arched palate, ear anomalies), congenital genitourinary malformations and hearing impairment. Smaller 14q22 deletions may have variable expression.
grange syndrome	Grange syndrome has characteristics of stenosis or occlusion of multiple arteries (including the renal, cerebral and abdominal vessels), hypertension, brachysyndactyly, syndactyly, increased bone fragility, and learning difficulties or borderline intellectual deficit. So far, the syndrome has been reported in six patients from three families. Congenital heart defects were also reported in some cases. The mode of transmission remains unclear, both autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant inheritance with decreased penetrance and parental gonadal mosaicism have been proposed.
splenogonadal fusion with limb defects and micrognathia	A rare dysostosis syndrome with characteristics of abnormal fusion of the spleen with the gonad (or more rarely with remnants of the mesonephros), limb abnormalities (consisting of amelia or severe reduction defects leading to upper and/or lower rudimentary limbs) and orofacial abnormalities such as cleft palate, bifid uvula, microglossia and mandibular hypoplasia. It may also be associated with other malformations such as cryptorchidism, anal stenosis/atresia, hypoplastic lungs and cardiac malformations.
pallister ulnar-mammary syndrome	An extremely rare inherited disorder characterized by malformations of the ulnar ray, hypoplasia and dysfunction of the axillary apocrine and mammary glands, endocrine dysfunction, dental anomalies, and occasional visceral malformations.
scalp ear nipple syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp (present at birth and healing during childhood), prominent hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinna and bilateral amastia. Renal and urinary tract abnormalities, as well as cataract, have also been observed. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
finlay-marks syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp (present at birth and healing during childhood), prominent hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinna and bilateral amastia. Renal and urinary tract abnormalities, as well as cataract, have also been observed. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
scalp-ear-nipple syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp (present at birth and healing during childhood), prominent hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinna and bilateral amastia. Renal and urinary tract abnormalities, as well as cataract, have also been observed. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
cleft palate, microcephaly, large ears, and short stature	A rare genetic syndrome with characteristics of cleft palate, large protruding ears, microcephaly and short stature (prenatal onset). Other skeletal abnormalities (delayed bone age, distally tapering fingers, hypoplastic distal phalanges, proximally placed thumbs, fifth finger clinodactyly), Pierre Robin sequence, cystic renal dysplasia, proximal renal tubular acidosis, hypospadia, cerebral anomalies on imaging (enlargement of lateral ventricles, mild cortical atrophy), seizures, hypotonia and developmental delay are also observed.
lacrimal puncta, absence of	No identifiable superior and/or inferior lacrimal punctum. [PMID:19125427]
radial hypoplasia and triphalangeal thumb with hypospadias and maxillary diastema syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has manifestation of symmetric, nonopposable triphalangeal thumbs and radial hypoplasia. It has been described in eight patients (five females and three males) spanning generations of a family. The affected males also presented with hypospadias. The syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
radial hypoplasia triphalangeal thumbs hypospadias maxillary diastema	This syndrome has manifestation of symmetric, nonopposable triphalangeal thumbs and radial hypoplasia. It has been described in eight patients (five females and three males) spanning generations of a family. The affected males also presented with hypospadias. The syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
schmitt gillenwater kelly syndrome	This syndrome has manifestation of symmetric, nonopposable triphalangeal thumbs and radial hypoplasia. It has been described in eight patients (five females and three males) spanning generations of a family. The affected males also presented with hypospadias. The syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
posterior radial head dislocation	A dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint in an posterior direction. [HPO:probinson]
pterygium, antecubital	Pterygium affecting the elbow. This is a cutaneous web that can lead to severe flexion contracture of the elbow joint. Antecubital pterygium can be unilateral, bilateral, symmetric, or asysmmetric. [HPO:probinson]
pterygium cubitale	Pterygium affecting the elbow. This is a cutaneous web that can lead to severe flexion contracture of the elbow joint. Antecubital pterygium can be unilateral, bilateral, symmetric, or asysmmetric. [HPO:probinson]
pterygium of conjunctiva and cornea	A wedge-shaped fibrovascular lesion arising from the bulbar conjunctiva and extending to the cornea. It is caused by chronic exposure to solar ultraviolet radiation, heat, and dust. It may cause severe vision loss. Studies have linked pterygium to neoplastic proliferation and suggest that it may be a stem cell disorder.
postaxial oligodactyly, tetramelic	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of isolated, postaxial oligodactyly in all four extremities. Patients present a consistent pattern of malformation ranging from complete absence of the 5th metacarpals, metatarsals and phalanges to complete absence of the 5th metacarpals and metatarsals, with some residual distal 5th phalanges. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
postaxial tetramelic oligodactyly	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of isolated, postaxial oligodactyly in all four extremities. Patients present a consistent pattern of malformation ranging from complete absence of the 5th metacarpals, metatarsals and phalanges to complete absence of the 5th metacarpals and metatarsals, with some residual distal 5th phalanges. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
phocomelia, ectrodactyly, deafness and sinus arrhythmia syndrome (disorder)	Rare syndrome with features of phocomelia (involving arms more severely), ectrodactyly, ear anomalies (bilateral anomalies of the pinnae), conductive deafness, dysmorphism (long and prominent philtrum, mild maxillary hypoplasia) and sinus arrhythmia. It has been described in four patients from two unrelated families.
facioauriculoradial dysplasia	Rare syndrome with features of phocomelia (involving arms more severely), ectrodactyly, ear anomalies (bilateral anomalies of the pinnae), conductive deafness, dysmorphism (long and prominent philtrum, mild maxillary hypoplasia) and sinus arrhythmia. It has been described in four patients from two unrelated families.
scapuloiliac dysostosis	A rare focal skeletal dysostosis with characteristics of symmetrical hypoplasia of the scapulae and the iliac wings of the pelvis. Approximately 10 patients have been reported so far. Additional skeletal abnormalities may include hypoplasia of the clavicles, ribs, femora and fibula, together with spina bifida and prominent lumbar lordosis. Eye anomalies (coloboma of iris and retina) have occasionally been reported. Intelligence is described as normal. Pelvis-shoulder dysplasia seems to be a genetically heterogeneous disorder but no causative genes have been identified so far.
pelvis shoulder dysplasia (disorder)	A rare focal skeletal dysostosis with characteristics of symmetrical hypoplasia of the scapulae and the iliac wings of the pelvis. Approximately 10 patients have been reported so far. Additional skeletal abnormalities may include hypoplasia of the clavicles, ribs, femora and fibula, together with spina bifida and prominent lumbar lordosis. Eye anomalies (coloboma of iris and retina) have occasionally been reported. Intelligence is described as normal. Pelvis-shoulder dysplasia seems to be a genetically heterogeneous disorder but no causative genes have been identified so far.
patella aplasia-hypoplasia	Absence or underdevelopment of the patella. [HPO:curators]
median facial cleft syndrome	Frontonasal dysplasia caused by mutations in the ALX3 gene, encoding homeobox protein aristaless-like 3. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.
renohepaticopancreatic dysplasia	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with the triad of pancreatic fibrosis (and cysts, with a reduction of parenchymal tissue), renal dysplasia (with peripheral cortical cysts, primitive collecting ducts, glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage) and hepatic dysgenesis (enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendency to perilobular fibrosis). Situs abnormalities, skeletal anomalies and anencephaly have also been associated. Patients that survive the neonatal period present renal insufficiency, chronic jaundice and insulin-dependant diabetes.
ivemark ii syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with the triad of pancreatic fibrosis (and cysts, with a reduction of parenchymal tissue), renal dysplasia (with peripheral cortical cysts, primitive collecting ducts, glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage) and hepatic dysgenesis (enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendency to perilobular fibrosis). Situs abnormalities, skeletal anomalies and anencephaly have also been associated. Patients that survive the neonatal period present renal insufficiency, chronic jaundice and insulin-dependant diabetes.
mullerian duct failure and hyperandrogenism	Deficiency of the glycoprotein WNT4, associated with loss of function mutation(s) in the WNT4 gene. The condition in 46,XX individuals is characterized by mild hyperandrogenism, absence of underdevelopment of the uterus, and sometimes absence of underdevelopment of the vagina.
temple-baraitser syndrome	A rare developmental anomaly syndrome with characteristics of severe intellectual disability and distal hypoplasia of digits, particularly of thumbs and halluces, with nail aplasia or hypoplasia. Facial dysmorphism with a pseudo-myopathic appearance has been reported, which may include high anterior hairline or low frontal hairline with central cowlick, flat forehead, ptosis, hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds, ears with thick helices, broad depressed nasal bridge with anteverted nares, short columella, long philtrum, high-arched palate, broad mouth with thick vermilion border of the upper or the lower lip and downturned corners. Marked hypotonia, seizures and global developmental delay have been reported, associated with autistic spectrum disorder manifestations in some patients.
omodysplasia, autosomal dominant	An autosomal dominant form of omodysplasia a rare skeletal dysplasia, in which stature is normal and shortening is limited to the upper limbs.
omodysplasia 2	An autosomal dominant form of omodysplasia a rare skeletal dysplasia, in which stature is normal and shortening is limited to the upper limbs.
polymicrogyria with optic nerve hypoplasia	A rare genetic syndrome with characteristics of severe developmental delay, neonatal hypotonia, seizures, optic nerve hypoplasia and distinct central nervous system malformations including extensive bilateral polymicrogyria, dysplastic or absent corpus callosum and malformed brainstem with loss of demarcation of the pontomedullary junction. There is evidence this disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the TUBA8 gene on chromosome 22q11.
pelvic dysplasia, arthrogryposis of lower limbs syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic dysostosis syndrome with characteristics of intrauterine growth restriction, short stature (with short lower segment), lower limb joint contractures and muscular hypotrophy, narrow small pelvis, lumbar hyperlordosis with scoliosis and foot deformity (short overlapping toes). Imaging reveals ovoid/wedge-shaped vertebral bodies, pelvic and skeletal hypoplasia with metatarsal fusion in the lower limbs and normal skull and upper limbs.
congenital aplasia of extensor muscle of finger and thumb associated with generalised polyneuropathy	A rare hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with characteristics of flexion deformities of the thumb and fingers, sensory deficit in the hand and polyneuropathic electrophysiologic findings in the limbs. Operation on the hands reveals extensor muscles and their tendons to be absent or hypoplastic. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
choroidal atrophy and alopecia syndrome (diagnosis)	A very rare ectodermal dysplasia syndrome with the association of choroidal atrophy (sometimes regional), together with other ectodermal dysplasia features including fine and sparse hair, absent or decreased lashes and eyebrows, and possibly mild visual loss and dysplastic/thick/grooved nails.
renal dysplasia, megalocystis and sirenomelia	Characterised by bilateral renal agenesis or dysplasia, megacystis secondary to urethral obstruction and sirenomelia. The disorder is lethal.
renal dysplasia, megalocystis, and sirenomelia	Characterised by bilateral renal agenesis or dysplasia, megacystis secondary to urethral obstruction and sirenomelia. The disorder is lethal.
chitty hall webb syndrome	A very rare bone disease reported in two siblings with characteristics of bowed tibia, hypoplastic thumbs, multiple fractures, distinctive facial features and developmental delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1993.
delayed speech and facial asymmetry with strabismus and ear lobe skin crease syndrome	This syndrome is extremely rare and has characteristics of delayed speech development, mild facial asymmetry, strabismus and transverse ear lobe creases. To date, six cases have been reported in five families. Dysmorphic features include asymmetrical face, unilateral narrow palpebral fissure, divergent strabismus, long philtrum, high-arched palate, apparently low-set ears and transverse ear lobe creases on both sides. Delayed language development is constant but intellectual development can be normal. In one family, the transmission was compatible with either autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inheritance.
ellis yale winter syndrome	A very rare syndrome with the combination of microcephaly, heart defects, renal hypoplasia, lung segmentation defects and cleft palate. It has been described in three female siblings. Dysmorphic features were not characteristic. The condition seems to be hereditary, and transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Prognosis is poor and all children died in infancy.
ferlini ragno calzolari syndrome	This syndrome has principal characteristics of by Sprengel anomaly (upward displacement of the scapula) and hydrocephaly. Other anomalies such as psychomotor retardation, psychosis, brachydactyly and costovertebral dysplasia may also be present. The syndrome has been described in eight female patients. The mode of transmission has not been firmly established but appears to be either autosomal or X-linked dominant.
thomas syndrome	Thomas syndrome has characteristics of renal anomalies, cardiac malformations and cleft lip or palate. It has been described in six patients. Transmission was suggested to be autosomal recessive.
disorder of sex development with intellectual disability syndrome (disorder)	A rare association of malformations described in only three patients including two siblings. The first patient had profound intellectual deficit and clinical features including short stature, coarse face, deep-set eyes, microphthalmia, large ears, gynoid obesity, imperforate anus, sacral spina bifida, pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias, persistence of Mullerian structures, and low gonadotrophin levels. His XY sibling was raised as a girl, was slightly mentally impaired and had microphthalmia and large ears and short stature. The third patient had severe hearing loss, ocular colobomata, hypogonadism of central origin, distinct craniofacial features and skeletal anomalies with cervical spina bifida, hyperkyphosis and thoracic deformity. All patients had a normal 46, XY karyotype. Inheritance could be either autosomal recessive or X-linked.
triphalangeal thumb non opposable	A form of triphalangeal thumb that cannot be placed opposite the fingers of the same hand. [HPO:probinson]
cystic fibrosis with gastritis and megaloblastic anemia syndrome	A rare genetic disease reported in two siblings of consanguineous Arab parents with characteristics of cystic fibrosis, gastritis associated with Helicobacter pylori, folate deficiency megaloblastic anemia, and intellectual disability. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1991.
melhem fahl syndrome	Syndrome that was described in two siblings born to consanguineous parents in 1985 with the presence of 15 dorsal vertebrae and rib pairs. No other cases have been documented since the initial report.
melhem fahl syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome that was described in two siblings born to consanguineous parents in 1985 with the presence of 15 dorsal vertebrae and rib pairs. No other cases have been documented since the initial report.
conductive hearing loss and malformed low-set ears	A very rare syndromic genetic deafness with characteristics of mild to moderate conductive hearing loss, dysmorphic pinnae and lip pits or dimples. The pinnae are usually small, cup-shaped with helix folded forward, and hearing loss is associated with malformed ossicles and displacement of the external auditory canal.
sternum cleft	The sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum. [HPO:probinson]
thumb stiffness, brachydactyly, intellectual disability syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit, mild dysmorphism, type A brachydactyly, signs of obesity and ankylosis of both thumbs. It has been reported in several females from one family (a girl and her mother, her grandmother and probably also her sister and her great-aunt), as well as in an isolated case.
thin ribs, tubular bones, dysmorphism syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare lethal primary bone dysplasia with characteristics of thin ribs, thin long bones, high-arched palate and facial features of frontal bossing and low-set posteriorly rotated ears. Bilateral cryptorchidism may be also observed. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1990.
sharma kapoor ramji syndrome	An extremely rare lethal primary bone dysplasia with characteristics of thin ribs, thin long bones, high-arched palate and facial features of frontal bossing and low-set posteriorly rotated ears. Bilateral cryptorchidism may be also observed. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1990.
krasnow qazi yermakov syndrome	Describes the extremely rare triad of dilated cardiomyopathy, premature cataract and articular disease of the hips and spine with characteristics of hip joint degeneration, irregular intervertebral discs and platyspondyly. The ocular abnormalities are often the first symptoms to arise. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
krasnow qazi syndrome	Describes the extremely rare triad of dilated cardiomyopathy, premature cataract and articular disease of the hips and spine with characteristics of hip joint degeneration, irregular intervertebral discs and platyspondyly. The ocular abnormalities are often the first symptoms to arise. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1985.
battaglia neri syndrome	Syndrome with the association of moderate to severe intellectual deficit, microcephaly, epilepsy, coarse face, hirsutism and skeletal abnormalities (scoliosis and retarded bone development). It has been described only once, in two siblings (one male and one female). This syndrome is likely to be an autosomal recessive condition and thus parents should be informed of a 25% risk of recurrence for other children.
macrocephaly, short stature, paraplegia syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of macrocephaly and midface hypoplasia, intellectual deficit, short stature, spastic paraplegia and severe central nervous system anomalies (hydrocephalus and Dandy-Walker malformation). It has been described in two unrelated adults.
blastogenesis defect	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of congenital manifestations of both oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum and caudal regression sequence. Phenotype is highly variable but patients typically present facial dysmorphism (including asymmetry, hypertelorism), auricular abnormalities (for example preauricular tags, microtia, absence of middle ear ossicles), skeletal malformations (hemivertebrae, hip dislocation, sacral agenesis/dysplasia, talipes equinovarus, flexion deformity of lower limbs), cardiac defects (dextrocardia, septal defects), renal and genitourinary anomalies (such as renal agenesis/dysplasia, abnormal external genitalia) along with anal anomalies such as anal atresia and rectovesical fistula.
foveal hypoplasia with presenile cataract syndrome	A rare genetic ocular disease with characteristics of congenital nystagmus (horizontal, vertical and/or torsional), foveal hypoplasia, presenile cataracts (with typical onset in the second to third decade of life) and normal irides. Corneal pannus and/or optic nerve hypoplasia may also be present. Caused by heterozygous mutation in the PAX6 gene on chromosome 11p13.
frontofacionasal dysplasia	Rare disorder with features of multiple craniofacial anomalies; brachycephaly, blepharophimosis, ptosis, S-shaped palpebral fissures, coloboma, cleft lip and palate, deformed nostrils, encephalocele, hypertelorism, midface hypoplasia, malformed eyes, and absent inner eyelashes. The syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
radioulnar synostosis with microcephaly and scoliosis syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of the association of radioulnar synostosis with microcephaly, scoliosis, short stature and intellectual deficit.
brachydactyly, type a1, with short stature, scoliosis, microcephaly, ptosis, hearing loss, and mental retardation	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of the association of radioulnar synostosis with microcephaly, scoliosis, short stature and intellectual deficit.
x-linked mental retardation reish type	X-linked mental retardation with characteristics of Brain anomalies, severe mental Retardation, Ectodermal dysplasia, Skeletal deformities (vertebral anomalies, scoliosis, polydactyly), Ear/eye anomalies (maldevelopment, small optic nerves, low set and large ears with hearing loss) and Kidney dysplasia/hypoplasia (giving the acronym BRESEK syndrome). It has been described in two brothers, one of whom died shortly after birth. One of the brothers also had Hirschsprung disease and Cleft palate/cryptorchidism (giving the acronym: BRESHECK syndrome). Transmission is X-linked dominant.
brain anomaly, severe mental retardation, ectodermal dysplasia, skeletal deformity, ear anomaly, kidney dysplasia syndrome	X-linked mental retardation with characteristics of Brain anomalies, severe mental Retardation, Ectodermal dysplasia, Skeletal deformities (vertebral anomalies, scoliosis, polydactyly), Ear/eye anomalies (maldevelopment, small optic nerves, low set and large ears with hearing loss) and Kidney dysplasia/hypoplasia (giving the acronym BRESEK syndrome). It has been described in two brothers, one of whom died shortly after birth. One of the brothers also had Hirschsprung disease and Cleft palate/cryptorchidism (giving the acronym: BRESHECK syndrome). Transmission is X-linked dominant.
deafness, autosomal recessive 4, with enlarged vestibular aqueduct	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in one of several genes, most often SLC26A4 encoding pendrin. It is characterized by hearing loss and enlargement of the vestibular aqueduct. Mutation(s) in the SLC26A4 gene also cause Pendred syndrome.
shfld	A rare condition with features of congenital ectrodactylous limb malformations associated with tibial aplasia or hypoplasia. The expression of the phenotype is highly variable and ranges from bilateral aplasia of tibiae and split-hand/split-foot deformity (tetramonodactyly or transverse hemimelia) to the mildest visible manifestation, hypoplastic big toes. Additional malformations may include distal hypoplasia or bifurcation of femora, hypo or aplasia of ulnae, and minor anomalies such as aplasia of patellae, postaxial and intermediate polydactyly in association with split-hand deformity, and cup-shaped ears. The syndrome is generally inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with reduced penetrance.
craniomandibular dermatodysostosis	A rare, autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the LMNA gene. It is characterized by growth retardation, craniofacial abnormalities with mandibular hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities with progressive osteolysis of the distal phalanges and clavicles, and mottled or patchy skin pigmentation. The affected individuals have a marked acral loss of adipose tissue with normal or increased adipose tissue in the neck and trunk.
drug induced abnormalities	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride (substance)	The hydrochloride salt form of trihexyphenidyl, a synthetic, substituted piperidine with parasympatholytic activity used mostly in Parkinson's disease. Trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride antagonizes activities of acetylcholine via muscarinic receptors. This balances the cholinergic and dopaminergic activity in the basal ganglia leading to an improvement of classic Parkinson symptoms such as rigidity and tremor. In addition, trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride exerts a direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle.
abnorm drug ind	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
hyoscyamine sulfate	The sulfate salt of a belladonna alkaloid derivative and the levorotatory form of racemic atropine isolated from the plants Hyoscyamus niger or Atropa belladonna, which exhibits anticholinergic activity. Hyoscyamine functions as a non-selective, competitive antagonist of muscarinic receptors, thereby inhibiting the parasympathetic activities of acetylcholine on the salivary, bronchial, and sweat glands, as well as the eye, heart, bladder, and gastrointestinal tract. These inhibitory effects cause a decrease in saliva, bronchial mucus, gastric juices, and sweat. Furthermore, its inhibitory action on smooth muscle prevents bladder contraction and decreases gastrointestinal motility.
benztropine	A centrally active muscarinic antagonist that has been used in the symptomatic treatment of PARKINSON DISEASE. Benztropine also inhibits the uptake of dopamine.
ethyl-(3-hydroxy-phenyl)-dimethyl-ammonium	A rapid-onset, short-acting cholinesterase inhibitor used in cardiac arrhythmias and in the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. It has also been used as an antidote to curare principles.
edrophonium chloride (substance)	The chloride salt form of edrophonium, a short and rapid-acting cholinesterase inhibitor with parasympathomimetic activity. Echothiophate chloride potentiates the action of endogenous acetylcholine by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase that hydrolyzes acetylcholine. When applied topically to the eye, this agent prolongs stimulation of the parasympathetic receptors at the neuromuscular junctions of the longitudinal muscle of the ciliary body. Contraction of longitudinal muscle pulls on the scleral spur, and opens the trabecular meshwork, thereby increases aqueous humor outflow from the eye and reduces intraocular pressure.
abnormalities, drug induced	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
glycopyrrolate	A muscarinic antagonist used as an antispasmodic, in some disorders of the gastrointestinal tract, and to reduce salivation with some anesthetics.
drug-induced abnormality	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
lactobacillus acidophilus (moro 1900) hansen and mocquot 1970	A species of gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria isolated from the intestinal tract of humans and animals, the human mouth, and vagina. This organism produces the fermented product, acidophilus milk.
lactobacillus casei	rod shaped bacterium isolated from milk and cheese, dairy products and dairy environments, sour dough, cow dung, silage, and human mouth, human intestinal contents and stools, and the human vagina.
drug-induced abnormalities	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
proserine	A cholinesterase inhibitor used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis and to reverse the effects of muscle relaxants such as gallamine and tubocurarine. Neostigmine, unlike PHYSOSTIGMINE, does not cross the blood-brain barrier.
physostigmine	A cholinesterase inhibitor that is rapidly absorbed through membranes. It can be applied topically to the conjunctiva. It also can cross the blood-brain barrier and is used when central nervous system effects are desired, as in the treatment of severe anticholinergic toxicity.
phytonadione (vitamin k1)	A family of phylloquinones that contains a ring of 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone and an isoprenoid side chain. Members of this group of vitamin K 1 have only one double bond on the proximal isoprene unit. Rich sources of vitamin K 1 include green plants, algae, and photosynthetic bacteria. Vitamin K1 has antihemorrhagic and prothrombogenic activity.
abnormality, drug-induced	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
pyridostigmine bromide	A cholinesterase inhibitor with a slightly longer duration of action than NEOSTIGMINE. It is used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis and to reverse the actions of muscle relaxants.
trihexyphenidyl	One of the centrally acting MUSCARINIC ANTAGONISTS used for treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and drug-induced extrapyramidal movement disorders and as an antispasmodic.
2-methyl-3-(3,7,11,15-tetramethylhexadec-2-enyl)naphthalene-1,4-dione	A lipid cofactor that is required for normal blood clotting. Several forms of vitamin K have been identified: VITAMIN K 1 (phytomenadione) derived from plants, VITAMIN K 2 (menaquinone) from bacteria, and synthetic naphthoquinone provitamins, VITAMIN K 3 (menadione). Vitamin K 3 provitamins, after being alkylated in vivo, exhibit the antifibrinolytic activity of vitamin K. Green leafy vegetables, liver, cheese, butter, and egg yolk are good sources of vitamin K.
mesylate, benztropine	A synthetic antiparkinson tertiary amine structurally related to atropine, Benztropine Mesylate acts as a central muscarinic antagonist and inhibits dopamine uptake. With antihistaminic and local anesthetic properties as well, it is indicated for symptomatic relief of parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. (NCI04)
carbamyl-β-methylcholine	A slowly hydrolyzing muscarinic agonist with no nicotinic effects. Bethanechol is generally used to increase smooth muscle tone, as in the GI tract following abdominal surgery or in urinary retention in the absence of obstruction. It may cause hypotension, HEART RATE changes, and BRONCHIAL SPASM.
abnormalities, drug-induced	Congenital abnormalities caused by medicinal substances or drugs of abuse given to or taken by the mother, or to which she is inadvertently exposed during the manufacture of such substances. The concept excludes abnormalities resulting from exposure to non-medicinal chemicals in the environment.
bethanechol chloride	A synthetic quaternary ammonium base derivative, parasympathomimetic bethanechol is a slowly hydrolyzed muscarinic agonist with no nicotinic effects. Generally used to increase smooth muscle tone, bethanechol is used to treat reflux esophagitis and to initiate urination after surgery, in urinary infections, or for enlarged prostate. It may cause hypotension, cardiac rate changes, and bronchial spasms. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C28866" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C28866" NCI Thesaurus)
lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies bulgaricus	A subspecies of Lactobacillus delbrueckii, formerly classified as a separate species, that is used for producing YOGURT and as a PROBIOTIC.
lactobacillus helveticus (organism)	En art grampositiva bakterier som isolerats från mjölk och startkulturer för ost.
ligilactobacillus salivarius	A species of facultatively anaerobic, Gram positive, rod shaped bacteria in the phylum Firmicutes. This species is nonmotile, non spore forming, nitrate negative and does not hydrolyze esculin or hippurate. L. salivarius is a commensal organism of the oral cavity.
lactobacillus rhamnosus (hansen 1968) collins et al. 1989	Druh grampozitivní, tyčinkovité bakterie, která se používá jako probiotikum.
lactobacillus plantarum	En art av stavformade mjölksyrabakterier som används i probiotika och ensilage.
lactobacillus crispatus	A species of Lactobacillus that occurs in the human GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT and the VAGINA of healthy women. It produces LACTIC ACID and HYDROGEN PEROXIDE, and is used as a PROBIOTIC. It is also used for the treatment and prevention of BACTERIAL VAGINOSIS.
lactobacillus reuteri	Druh grampozitivní, tyčinkovité bakterie mléčného kvašení, která je přirozenou součástí lidské střevní mikroflóry a mateřského mléka.
benzeneacetic acid, alpha-(hydroxymethyl)-, 8-methyl-8-azabicyclo(3.2.1)oct-3-yl ester, (3(s)-endo)-	The 3(S)-endo isomer of atropine.
foetal vitamin a syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to retinoids during pregnancy. Manifestations include growth delay, skull, facial, heart, and central nervous system malformations.
embryopathy caused by acitretin	A rare teratogenic disorder due to acitretin exposure during the first trimester of pregnancy, carrying a risk of fetal malformations of approximately 20%, including central nervous system, craniofacial, ear, thymic, cardiac and limb anomalies.
teratogenesis (finding)	The result of processes that negatively affect a developing fetus.
medicines and pregnancy	<p>Not all medicines are safe to take when you are <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/pregnancy.html">pregnant</a>. Some medicines can harm your baby. That includes over-the-counter or prescription drugs, herbs, and supplements.</p> <p>Always speak with your health care provider before you start or stop any medicine. Not using medicine that you need may be more harmful to you and your baby than using the medicine. For example, many pregnant women take prescription medicines for health problems like diabetes, asthma, seizures, and heartburn. The decision about whether or not to take a medicine depends on the risks and benefits. You and your health care provider should make this choice together.</p> <p>Pregnant women should not take regular vitamins. They may have too much or too little of the vitamins that you need. There are special vitamins for pregnant women. It is important to take 0.4 mg of folic acid every day before you become pregnant through the first part of your pregnancy. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/folicacid.html">Folic acid</a> helps to prevent birth defects of the baby's brain or spine.</p> <p class="">Food and Drug Administration</p>
aase smith type 1 syndrome	A very rare genetic disorder with characteristics of the following congenital malformations: hydrocephalus (due to Dandy-Walker anomaly), cleft palate and severe joint contractures. Less than 20 cases have been reported in the literature. The fingers are thin with absent knuckles and reduced creases over the joints and patients show an inability to make a full fist. Additional findings may include deformed ears, ptosis, an inability to open the mouth fully, heart defects, and clubfoot. There are currently no human genes associated with this disease.
multiple congenital abnormalities	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
weaver syndrome	A rare syndrome caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene, and rarely mutations in the NSD1 gene. It is characterized by advanced bone age, foot deformities, permanently bent joints, macrocephaly, flattened back of the head, a broad forehead, hypertelorism, large, low-set ears, micrognathia, delayed development of motor skills, and mild intellectual disability.
multiple congenital anomalies (morphologic abnormality)	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
schinzel-gideon syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutation(s) in the SETBP1 gene, encoding SET-binding protein. It is characterized by unique facial features, including midface hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
pterygium colli syndrome	A rare congenital disorder, this is the non-lethal variant of multiple pterygium syndrome, characterized by orthopedic and craniofacial abnormalities, pterygium and akinethesia. The majority of cases are autosomal dominant.
multiple congenital anomalies (disorder)	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
vertebral anomalies	A rare disorder caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene, MESP2 gene, LFNG gene, or HES7 gene. It is characterized by abnormal development of bones in the spine and ribs.
aplasia; lung	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
deformity; multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
syndrome joubert	A rare genetic syndrome characterized by the hypoplasia or absence of the cerebellar vermis. Signs and symptoms include rapid breathing (hyperpnea), sleep apnea, abnormal eye movements, mental retardation, and ataxia.
winchester syndrome (diagnosis)	An autosomal recessive inherited disorder, caused by mutation(s) in the MMP14 gene, encoding matrix metalloproteinase-14. It is characterized by short stature, coarse facial features, flat nose, joint contractures, severe osteolysis in the hands and feet, and generalized osteoporosis.
aminopterin syndrome-like sine aminopterin	A developmental anomaly syndrome that resembles aminopterin embryopathy without history of exposure in utero to aminopterin. Main features include craniosynostosis, dysmorphic features including ocular hypertelorism, palpebral fissure anomalies, micrognathia cleft lip and/or high arched palate and small and low set/rotated ears.Limb anomalies include brachydactyly, syndactyly and clinodactyly. Also associated with mild-to-moderate intellectual deficit and short stature.
mental retardation-deafnes, skeletal abnormalities, coarse face with full lips	An extremely rare multi-systemic genetic disorder with characteristics of intellectual disability, deafness, skeletal abnormalities and coarse facial features.The syndrome is exceedingly rare and has been reported in only a few patients to date. Male and female patients have been described. The main clinical features include moderate to severe intellectual deficit, congenital sensorineural hearing impairment and broad, stubby hands and feet. A coarse face with full lips and cheeks is also found. These signs are reported to become more prominent with age. The pattern of inheritance appears to be autosomal recessive.
multiple; deformity	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
congenital deformity, multiple nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
multiple congenital anomaly	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
kabuki make-up syndrome (disorder)	A rare, autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene (also known as MLL2) or the KDM6A gene. It is characterized by distinctive facial features including arched eyebrows, long eyelashes, long palpebral fissures with the lower lids turned out at the outside edges, a flat nose, and large protruding earlobes, developmental delay and intellectual disability.
abnormalities, multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
multiple anomalies, nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
intellectual disability buenos aires type	A rare intellectual disability syndrome with characteristics of growth retardation, microcephaly, characteristic facial features (including narrow forehead, bushy eyebrows, hypertelorism, small, downward-slanting palpebral fissures with blepharoptosis, malformed and low-set ears, broad straight nose, thin upper lip and a wide, tented mouth), developmental delay, intellectual disability, speech disorder, and multiple organ malformations (e.g. ventricular septal defect, megaloureter, dilated renal pelvis). Additional manifestations reported include neurocutaneous lesions (including palmoplantar hyperkeratosis), internal hydrocephalus, and bilateral partial soft-tissue syndactyly of second and third toe.
hypertelorism teebi type	A rare genetic disease with characteristics of hypertelorism with facial features that can closely resemble craniofrontonasal dysplasia, such as prominent forehead, widow's peak, heavy and broad eyebrows, long palpebral fissures, ptosis, high and broad nasal bridge, short nose, low-set ears, natal teeth, thin upper lip and a grooved chin. Limb features include fifth-finger clinodactyly, pes adductus, mild interdigital webbing. Urogenital features include bilateral cryptorchidism and shawl scrotum in males. Other manifestations include umbilical hernia/omphalocele and cardiac defects. Psychomotor development is normal.
wt limb-blood syndrome	Syndrome is characterised by haematological anomalies (Fanconi anaemia, leukaemia and lymphoma) often appearing during childhood. Anomalies of the limbs and hands are also present: bifid or hypoplastic thumbs, cutaneous syndactyly and ulnar and radial defects. The syndrome has been described in several families. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
ivic syndrome	A very rare genetic malformation syndrome with characteristics of upper limb anomalies (radial ray defects, carpal bone fusion), extraocular motor disturbances and congenital bilateral non-progressive mixed hearing loss. Prevalence is not known. To date, four affected families from Venezuela, Italy, Hungary, and Turkey (discordant monozygotic twins) have been described. The syndrome has been linked to mutations in the SALL4 gene (20q13.2) encoding a transcription factor. Inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
cerebro-facio-articular syndrome	A rare multiple congenital anomalies syndrome with mild to severe intellectual disability, a distinctive facial gestalt (blepharophimosis, maxillary hypoplasia, telecanthus, microtia and atresia of the external auditory meatus) as well as skeletal and articular abnormalities (e.g. camptodactyly of the fingers, cutaneous syndactyly, talipes equinovarus, flexion contractures of the proximal interphalangeal joints, hip or elbow subluxation, joint laxity). May also present with neonatal hypotonia, variable respiratory manifestations, chronic feeding difficulties and gray matter heterotopia.
macrocephaly, obesity, mental disability, ocular abnormality syndrome (disorder)	A very rare genetic overgrowth/obesity syndrome with characteristics of macrocephaly, obesity, mental (intellectual) disability and ocular abnormalities. Other frequent clinical signs include macrosomia, downslanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, broad nasal root, high and broad forehead and delay in bone maturation, in association with normal thyroid function and karyotype.
congenital anomaly, multiple nos	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
verloes-david syndrome	A syndromal osteochondrodysplasia due to a contiguous gene deletion syndrome. The characteristics of this syndrome are progressive bowing of forearms and forelegs leading to mesomelia, progressive intracarpal or intratarsal bone fusion and fusion of metacarpal bones with proximal phalanges, ptosis, hypertelorism, abnormal soft palate, congenital heart defect and ureteral anomalies. To date 5 unrelated patients have been reported, including one family with multiple affected persons. This syndrome is due to a non-recurrent microdeletion in 8q13. All patients have a deletion of two contiguous genes: SULF1 and SLCO5A1. Transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait.
short tarsus absence of lower eyelashes	A very rare syndrome with the association of thin and short upper and lower tarsus and absence of the lower eyelashes. It has been described in 11 patients from a four-generation family. There is no other unusual feature. Inheritance is autosomal dominant.
pterygium colli with intellectual disability and digital anomaly syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of pterygium colli, digital anomalies and craniofacial abnormalities. Digital anomalies include abnormal small thumbs, widened interphalangeal joints, and broad terminal phalanges. Craniofacial abnormalities include brachycephaly, epicanthic folds, angulated eyebrows, upward slanting of the palpebral fissures, ptosis, hypertelorism, prominent low-set and posteriorly rotated ears. It has been described in a woman and her son, but the manifestations were much less severe in the mother. The son also had intellectual deficit. The inheritance is either X-linked dominant or autosomal dominant.
trigonocephaly, short stature, developmental delay syndrome (diagnosis)	Syndrome with characteristics of short stature, trigonocephaly and developmental delay. It has been described in three males. Moderate intellectual deficit was reported in one of the males and the other two patients displayed psychomotor retardation. X-linked transmission has been suggested but autosomal recessive inheritance cannot be ruled out.
scott craniodigital syndrome	Syndrome with manifestations of syndactyly of the fingers and toes, characteristic facies (startled facial expression with a small pointed nose, micrognathia, long dark eyelashes and prominent eyebrows) and intellectual deficit. Less than 10 cases have been described in the literature so far. Abnormal dermatoglyphic patterns, growth retardation and brachycephaly have also been reported. Transmission appears to be autosomal or X-linked recessive.
scarf (skeletal abnormality, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, retardation, facial abnormality) syndrome	Syndrome with the association of skeletal abnormalities, cutis laxa, craniostenosis, ambiguous genitalia, psychomotor retardation and facial abnormalities. So far, it has been described in two males (maternal first cousins). The mode of inheritance was suggested to be X-linked recessive.
grant syndrome	A rare osteogenesis imperfecta-like disorder, described in two patients to date, with clinical characteristics of persistent wormian bones, blue sclera, mandibular hypoplasia, shallow glenoid fossa, and campomelia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1986.
abnormalities congenital multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
perisylvian syndrome	A type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that affects both sides of the brain. [COST:neuromig, PMID:20301504]
simpson golabi behmel syndrome type 2	An extremely rare and severe early-lethal form of Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome. The disease is an overgrowth-multiple anomalies syndrome with characteristics of hydrops fetalis, macrocephaly, facial dysmorphism, short neck, redundant skin, skeletal defects (involving upper and lower limbs), hypoplastic nails, gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies, hypotonia and neurologic impairment. Severe intellectual disability, obesity and infections (pneumonia, sepsis) have been reported.
bedouin spastic ataxia syndrome	Extremely rare syndrome with features of spastic ataxia in association with bilateral congenital cataract, corneal dystrophy, and nonaxial myopia. It has been described in an inbred Bedouin family. Immunological abnormalities were frequent. Transmission is autosomal recessive and the disease is monogenic.
igf1res	Tissue unresponsiveness to insulin-like growth factor-I.
lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia	A rare disorder defined by generalised osteosclerosis with periosteal bone formation, characteristic facial dysmorphism, brain abnormalities including intracerebral calcifications, and neonatal lethal course. Mutations in the FAM20C gene have a causative role in lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.
oculo-palato-cerebral syndrome	The association of four anomalies: intellectual deficit, microcephaly, palate anomalies and ocular abnormalities. It has been described in five patients (three boys and two girls). The clinical manifestations are evident from birth. The palate anomaly is usually cleft palate. In the majority of cases, postnatal growth is marked by statural and ponderal retardation. Microcephaly is present in all patients.Persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous was present in all cases reported so far. Facial dysmorphology has characteristics of full cheeks, a bulbous nasal tip and long ears with thickened helices. Hands and feet are small. Anomalies of the external genitalia were reported in some of the male patients, with two of the boys displaying cryptorchidism. Skeletal anomalies include pectus excavatum, joint hyperlaxity and kyphoscoliosis. Intellectual deficit (moderate to severe) is a constant feature. So far, neither a causative gene nor locus has been identified.
fibula and ulna, duplication of, with absence of tibia and radius	A hand or foot with more than five digits that has a recognizable A/P axis of symmetry. The axis can lie within a normally formed or partially duplicated digit resembling a middle finger, index finger, thumb, toe, or hallux. Alternatively, the axis can be in an interdigital space with a flanking pair of digits that resemble a middle finger, index finger, thumb, toe or hallux. The most lateral digits on each side of the hand typically resemble fifth fingers/toes. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:19125433]
anisomastia	The presence of asymmetrical breasts. [HPO:probinson]
hypoparathyroidism, congenital, associated with dysmorphism, growth retardation, and developmental delay	An autosomal recessive condition caused by mutation(s) in the TBCE gene, encoding tubulin-specific chaperone E. It is characterized by congenital hypoparathyroidism, mental retardation, seizures and developmental delay.
hallux varus and preaxial polysyndactyly	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of bilateral medial displacement of the hallux and preaxial polysyndactyly of the first toes. Radiographs show broad, shortened, misshapen first metatarsals and may associate incomplete or complete duplication of proximal phalanges and duplication or triplication of distal phalanges. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1980.
gonadal dysgenesis, xy type, with associated anomalies	An association syndrome described only once in two sisters. They had a 46,XY karyotype, cleft lip and palate, preauricular pits and a 'squashed down' appearance because of a short columella and small nares. Other anomalies included broad hands and feet, and a hypermuscular appearance. Cardiac, renal, musculoskeletal and ectodermal anomalies were also present. Ectodermal defects included 'punched out scalp defects' and unusual positioning of hair whorls. They also had short stature, streak gonads, and mild developmental delay.
joubert syndrome with congenital hepatic fibrosis (disorder)	A very rare subtype of Joubert syndrome with the neurological features of Joubert Syndrome and congenital hepatic fibrosis. Prevalence is unknown. The age of onset and severity of hepatic manifestations are variable. Some patients may also present chorioretinal or optic nerve colobomas and nephronophthisis but these are not mandatory features. Over 70% of cases are due to mutations in the TMEM67 gene (8q22.1).
morm (mental retardation, truncal obesity, retinal dystrophy, micropenis) syndrome	Syndrome with the association of intellectual deficit, truncal obesity, retinal dystrophy and micropenis. It has been described in 14 individuals from a consanguineous family. It is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner. The causative locus has been mapped to chromosome region 9q34.
anomalies multiple	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
verloove vanhorick brubakk syndrome	A multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of multiple skeletal malformations (short femora and humeri, bilateral absence of metatarsal and metacarpal bone in hands and feet, bilateral partial syndactyly of fingers and toes or oligo/polysyndactyly, deformed lumbosacral spine), congenital heart disease (truncus arteriosus), lung and urogenital malformations (bilateral bilobar lungs, horseshoe kidney, cryptorchidism), and facial malformations (bilateral cleft lip and palate, micrognathia, small, low-set ears without external meatus). It is lethal in the neonatal period. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
multiple congenital malformations (disorder)	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
heart defect and limb shortening syndrome	Heart defects limb shortening is an association disorder combining congenital heart malformation and skeletal dysplasia (including coronal clefting of the vertebral bodies and short limbs). It has been described only once in the literature, in two male siblings from Kuwaiti first cousins. The clinical and radiological features of these patients were reported as a distinct cardio-skeletal syndrome.
ablepharon macrostomia syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome with the association of ablepharon, macrostomia, abnormal external ears, syndactyly of the hands and feet, skin findings (such as dry and coarse skin or redundant folds of skin), absent or sparse hair, genital malformations and developmental delay in two thirds of cases. Other reported manifestations include malar hypoplasia, absent or hypoplastic nipples, umbilical abnormalities and growth retardation.
triphalangeal thumb and brachy-ectrodactyly syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of triphalangeal thumbs and brachydactyly of the hands. Ectrodactyly of the feet and, more rarely, ectrodactyly of the hands were also reported in some family members. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
autosomal dominant thoracolaryngopelvic dysplasia	A short-rib dysplasia with characteristics of thoracic dystrophy, laryngeal stenosis and a small pelvis. Less than 10 cases have been reported in the literature so far. Patients present with severe respiratory distress (requiring intubation) during the neonatal period. The rib shortening is less severe than in Jeune syndrome and the thorax is characteristically small, narrow and bell-shaped. The pelvis is reduced in all dimensions and the combination of the thorax anomalies and the small pelvis give the appearance of a protruding abdomen. Subglottic stenosis has also been described but it remains unclear whether this is a congenital anomaly or is secondary to long-term intubation. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
microdeletion 17q21.31 syndrome	A chromosomal anomaly characterized by developmental delay, childhood hypotonia, facial dysmorphism, and friendly/amiable behavior. Abnormal hair pigmentation and texture is also frequent. Short stature, pectus excavatum, spine anomalies, dislocation of the hip, long slender fingers and slender lower limbs, and positional deformities of the hands/feet have also been reported. In all patients, global psychomotor developmental delay is noted from an early age. The recurrent 17q21.31 deletion encompasses at least six genes: C17orf69, CRHR1, IMP5, MAPT, STH and KIAA1267.
yemenite (warburg) deaf-blind hypopigmentation syndrome	An exceedingly rare genetic disorder with characteristics of cutaneous pigmentation anomalies, ocular disorders and hearing loss. The syndrome was described in 1990 in two patients from the same Yemenite family. A brother and sister were described as having cutaneous patchy hypo and hyperpigmentation on the trunk and extremities, grey hair, white brows and lashes. Ocular manifestations were microcornea, coloboma and abnormalities of the anterior chamber of the eye. Both patients had severe hearing loss and dental abnormalities. Intelligence was reported to be normal. Their parents were unaffected and possibly consanguineous. The cause of this syndrome has not been determined. The inheritance pattern appears to be autosomal recessive.
ulnar-mammary syndrome	An extremely rare inherited disorder characterized by malformations of the ulnar ray, hypoplasia and dysfunction of the axillary apocrine and mammary glands, endocrine dysfunction, dental anomalies, and occasional visceral malformations.
scalp, ear, nipple syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of the following triad: areas of hairless raw skin over the scalp (present at birth and healing during childhood), prominent hypoplastic ears with almost absent pinna and bilateral amastia. Renal and urinary tract abnormalities, as well as cataract, have also been observed. Transmission is autosomal dominant.
say barber hobbs syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome with characteristics of cleft palate, large protruding ears, microcephaly and short stature (prenatal onset). Other skeletal abnormalities (delayed bone age, distally tapering fingers, hypoplastic distal phalanges, proximally placed thumbs, fifth finger clinodactyly), Pierre Robin sequence, cystic renal dysplasia, proximal renal tubular acidosis, hypospadia, cerebral anomalies on imaging (enlargement of lateral ventricles, mild cortical atrophy), seizures, hypotonia and developmental delay are also observed.
radial hypoplasia, triphalangeal thumbs and hypospadias	This syndrome has manifestation of symmetric, nonopposable triphalangeal thumbs and radial hypoplasia. It has been described in eight patients (five females and three males) spanning generations of a family. The affected males also presented with hypospadias. The syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
guttmacher syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of hypoplastic thumbs and halluces, fifth finger brachydactyly, postaxial polydactyly of the hands, short or uniphalangeal second toes with absent nails and hypospadias. It has been described in a father and his son and daughter. The affected patients have normal mental development. Except for postaxial polydactyly of the hands and uniphalangeal second toes with absent nails, features are in common with hand-foot-genital syndrome caused by mutations in the HOXA13 gene. In all three affected individuals, two different sequence alterations were identified in HOXA13 gene: a de novo missense mutation and a deletion in the promoter region of the gene, inherited from an unaffected parent, which may contribute to the phenotype in the affected individuals. The condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
multiple congenital anomalies nos (disorder)	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
patterson pseudoleprechaunism syndrome	A rare genetic adrenal disorder with characteristics of congenital bronzed hyperpigmentation, cutis laxa of the hands and feet, body disproportion (comprising large hands, feet, nose and ears), hirsutism and severe intellectual disability. Patients additionally present hyperadrenocorticism, cushingoid features, premature adrenarche and diabetes mellitus, as well as skeletal deformities (not present at birth and which progress with age). There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1981.
nasopalpebral lipoma coloboma syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of nasopalpebral lipomas, bilateral eyelid coloboma, and telecanthus. It has been described in less than 30 patients. Other manifestations may include maxillary hypoplasia, hypertelorism, and dysmorphic features. It is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with complete penetrance.
multiple; anomaly	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
renal hepatic pancreatic dysplasia (disorder)	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with the triad of pancreatic fibrosis (and cysts, with a reduction of parenchymal tissue), renal dysplasia (with peripheral cortical cysts, primitive collecting ducts, glomerular cysts and metaplastic cartilage) and hepatic dysgenesis (enlarged portal areas containing numerous elongated binary profiles with a tendency to perilobular fibrosis). Situs abnormalities, skeletal anomalies and anencephaly have also been associated. Patients that survive the neonatal period present renal insufficiency, chronic jaundice and insulin-dependant diabetes.
renal hepatic pancreatic dysplasia dandy walker cyst	A rare genetic syndromic renal malformation with characteristics of cystic renal dysplasia with or without prenatal oligohydramnios, central nervous system abnormalities (commonly Dandy-Walker malformation), congenital hepatic fibrosis and absence of polydactyly. There is evidence the disease is caused by homozygous mutation in the NPHP3 gene on chromosome 3q22.
chromosome 22q11.2 microduplication syndrome	La asociación de un amplio espectro clínico y una duplicación de la región con deleción en pacientes con síndromes de DiGeorge o velocardiofacial, lo que establece un síndrome de duplicación complementaria. La presentación clínica en los pacientes es extremadamente variable y comparte características con los síndromes de deleción de 22q11.2, incluyendo defectos cardíacos, anomalías urogenitales, insuficiencia velofaríngea con fisura de paladar o sin ella y varía desde múltiples defectos hasta dificultades leves del aprendizaje y algunos individuos son prácticamente normales.
multiple malformation syndrome zechi ceide syndrome	A rare genetic multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of occipital atretic cephalocele associated with a specific facial dysmorphism (consisting of prominent forehead, narrow palpebral fissures, midface deficiency, narrow, malformed ears, broad nose and nasal root, grooved nasal tip and columella, laterally angulated, hypoplastic nares, short philtrum, thin upper lip, clift lip/palate, severe oligodontia, prominent chin) and large feet with sandal gap. Intellectual disability, developmental delay and hypoplastic finger and toenails have also been reported.
microcephaly cleft palate syndrome	This syndrome is characterized by the combination of microcephaly, cleft palate, and variable anomalies such as unusual facial appearance, hypotelorism, abnormal retinal pigmentation, maxillary hypoplasia, goiter, camptodactyly, mild intellectual deficit, and abnormal dermatoglyphics. It has been described only once; in two sisters and their mother. Although microcephaly and intellectual deficit are frequently associated with cleft palate, the other features of these patients are in favour of this syndrome being an entity per se. The mode of inheritance is autosomal or X-linked dominant.
multiple congenital anomalies (diagnosis)	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
lower limb malformation hypospadias syndrome (disorder)	A rare developmental defect during embryogenesis with characteristics of severe, unilateral or bilateral lower limb malformations (including tibial hypoplasia, split and rocker bottom-shaped feet, and oligo syndactyly), normal upper limbs and hypospadias. Additional dysmorphic features (for example short neck and low-set, large ears), atrial septal defect, ureteropelvic junction stenosis and slight septation of the spleen, have also been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1977.
delayed speech & facial asymmetry with strabismus & ear lobe skin crease syndrome (diagnosis)	This syndrome is extremely rare and has characteristics of delayed speech development, mild facial asymmetry, strabismus and transverse ear lobe creases. To date, six cases have been reported in five families. Dysmorphic features include asymmetrical face, unilateral narrow palpebral fissure, divergent strabismus, long philtrum, high-arched palate, apparently low-set ears and transverse ear lobe creases on both sides. Delayed language development is constant but intellectual development can be normal. In one family, the transmission was compatible with either autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant inheritance.
tetraamelia with multiple malformation syndrome	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
thakker donnai syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic lethal multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of facial dysmorphism (including long, downward slanting palpebral fissures, hypertelorism, posteriorly rotated ears, broad nasal bridge, short nose with a bulbous tip and anteverted nares, downturned corners of the mouth) as well as vertebral (occult spina bifida, hemivertebrae), brain (ventricular dilatation, agenesis of corpus callosum), cardiac (tetralogy of Fallot, ventricular septal defect) and gastrointestinal (short esophagus with intrathoracic stomach, small intestine, spleen and pancreas, anal atresia) malformations. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1991.
potter sequence cleft lip and palate cardiopathy syndrome	Thomas syndrome has characteristics of renal anomalies, cardiac malformations and cleft lip or palate. It has been described in six patients. Transmission was suggested to be autosomal recessive.
duplication 17p11.2 syndrome	A rare genetic disorder characterized by hypotonia, failure to thrive, mental retardation, developmental disorders, congenital anomalies, and autism spectrum disorders. The majority of patients harbor a microduplication of chromosome 17p11.
arachnodactyly with abnormal ossification and intellectual disability syndrome (disorder)	A multiple congenital developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of arachnodactyly of fingers and toes associated with craniofacial dysmorphism (including abnormal cranial ossification, frontal bossing, flat calvaria, shallow deformed orbits resulting in exophthalmos, midface hypoplasia and micrognathia), feeding difficulties in infancy, infantile muscular hypotonia, and developmental delay leading to intellectual disability.
cardiospondylocarpofacial syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of mitral insufficiency, conductive deafness, short stature, and skeletal anomalies (bony fusion involving the cervical vertebrae, the ossicles and the carpal and tarsal bones). It has been described in three members of one family. The mode of inheritance is likely to be autosomal dominant with incomplete penetrance.
siegler brewer carey syndrome	Syndrome that is characterised by cataracts, otitis media, intestinal malabsorption, chronic respiratory infection and failure to thrive. It has been recently described in two siblings born to consanguineous parents. The patients also developed recurrent pneumonia and progressive azotaemia leading to end-stage renal disease. Both children died of overwhelming infection (sepsis, meningitis). An autosomal recessive mode of inheritance was proposed.
cleft lip and palate, congenital heart disease, scoliosis, short stature, and mental retardation	A rare genetic multiple developmental anomalies syndrome with characteristics of craniofacial anomalies (microcephaly, brachycephaly, craniosynostosis, facial asymmetry, cleft lip, cleft palate, dysmorphic facial features, ear lobe malformations, low hair line), congenital heart defects, hypogenitalism and/or hypogonadism, intellectual disability, scoliosis or kyphoscoliosis, short hypoplastic ribs, failure to thrive, growth delay, short stature and/or micromelia. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1975.
non-eruption of teeth, maxillary hypoplasia, genu valgum syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of multiple unerupted permanent teeth, hypoplasia of the alveolar process and of the maxillo-zygomatic region, severe genu valgum and deformed ears. Consanguinity in the family suggested autosomal recessive inheritance.
microcephalus microcornea syndrome of seemanova type	Extremely rare syndrome with features of microcephaly and brachycephaly, eye anomalies (microphthalmia, microcornea, congenital cataract), hypogenitalism, severe intellectual deficit, growth retardation and progressive spasticity. This syndrome is transmitted as an X-linked trait.
glaucoma, ectopia, microspherophakia, stiff joint, short stature syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of progressive joint stiffness, glaucoma, short stature and lens dislocation. It has been described in three members of a family (the grandfather, his daughter and grandson). It is likely to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. The acronym GEMSS (Glaucoma, Ectopia, Microspherophakia, Stiff joints, Short stature) was proposed as a name for the syndrome.
oculocerebral hypopigmentation syndrome of preus type	A rare congenital syndrome characterised by skin and hair hypopigmentation, growth retardation, and intellectual deficit that are associated with a combination of various additional clinical anomalies such as ocular albinism, cataract, delayed neuropsychomotor development, sensorineural hearing loss, dolicocephaly, high arched palate, widely spaced teeth, anaemia, and/or nystagmus.
deafness, genital anomaly, metacarpal and metatarsal synostosis syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of sensorineural deafness, bilateral synostosis of the fourth and fifth metacarpals and metatarsals, genital anomalies (hypospadias in males), psychomotor delay and abnormal dermatoglyphics. So far, it has been described in two unrelated patients. Facial dysmorphism was noted in both patients (prominent forehead, ear anomalies, facial asymmetry and an open mouth appearance).
preaxial polydactyly, colobomata, intellectual disability syndrome (disorder)	Syndrome with characteristics of growth retardation, intellectual deficit, preaxial polydactyly and colobomatous anomalies. It has been described in one pair of siblings (brother and sister). The mode of transmission is thought to be autosomal recessive.
multiple abnorm	Congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or body structure.
tsukahara syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome with characteristics of the association of radioulnar synostosis with microcephaly, scoliosis, short stature and intellectual deficit.
congenital diseases	existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to conditions that are present at birth, regardless of their causation; inborn metabolism disorders are generally not treed here.
acrocephalosyndactyly, type ii	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
craniofacial dysostosis syndrome	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
syndrome, aicardi's	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
syndrome, aicardi	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
mbs	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
acrocephalosyndactylias	Congenital craniostenosis with syndactyly.
syndrome crouzon's	Autosomal dominant CRANIOSYNOSTOSIS with shallow ORBITS; EXOPHTHALMOS; and maxillary hypoplasia.
aicardi's syndrome	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
aic	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
chorioretinal anomalies with acc	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
agenesis of corpus callosum with infantile spasms and ocular abnormalities	A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM, resulting in infantile spasms, MENTAL RETARDATION, and lesions of the RETINA or OPTIC NERVE.
acc-aha pediatric and congenital cardiology ehr terminology	Terminology used in support of the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association's (AHA) efforts to collect key elements pertaining to clinical data obtained from electronic health records with a focus on pediatric and congenital cardiology.
apert's syndrome	An autosomal dominant inherited type of acrocephalosyndactyly caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is characterized by early closure of the sutures between the skull bones, bulging eyes, low-set ears, fusion of the second, third, and forth fingers, and fusion of the toes.
congenital arachnodactyly (disorder)	An abnormal bone development that is characterized by extra long and slender hands and fingers, such that the clenched thumb extends beyond the ulnar side of the hand. Arachnodactyly can include feet and toes. Arachnodactyly has been associated with several gene mutations and syndromes.
emg syndrome	A syndrome of multiple defects characterized primarily by umbilical hernia (HERNIA, UMBILICAL); MACROGLOSSIA; and GIGANTISM; and secondarily by visceromegaly; HYPOGLYCEMIA; and ear abnormalities.
chromosome disorder	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomal dis	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
chromosomopathy, nos	clinical conditions caused by an abnormal chromosome constitution in which there is extra or missing chromosome material, either a whole chromosome or a chromosome segment.
deletion, chromosome	Actual loss of portion of a chromosome.
cockayne syndrome (diagnosis)	A syndrome characterized by multiple system abnormalities including DWARFISM; PHOTOSENSITIVITY DISORDERS; PREMATURE AGING; and HEARING LOSS. It is caused by mutations of a number of autosomal recessive genes encoding proteins that involve transcriptional-coupled DNA REPAIR processes. Cockayne syndrome is classified by the severity and age of onset. Type I (classical; CSA) is early childhood onset in the second year of life; type II (congenital; CSB) is early onset at birth with severe symptoms; type III (xeroderma pigmentosum; XP) is late childhood onset with mild symptoms.
5p minus syndrome	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
5p deletion syndromes	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
syndromes, 5p minus	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
cri-du-chat syndromes	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
chromosome 5p deletion syndrome	An infantile syndrome characterized by a cat-like cry, failure to thrive, microcephaly, MENTAL RETARDATION, spastic quadriparesis, micro- and retrognathia, glossoptosis, bilateral epicanthus, hypertelorism, and tiny external genitalia. It is caused by a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5 (5p-).
down syndrome, unspecified	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
chromosome 21 trisomy	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
downs syndrome	A chromosome disorder associated either with an extra chromosome 21 or an effective trisomy for chromosome 21. Clinical manifestations include hypotonia, short stature, brachycephaly, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthus, Brushfield spots on the iris, protruding tongue, small ears, short, broad hands, fifth finger clinodactyly, Simian crease, and moderate to severe INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. Cardiac and gastrointestinal malformations, a marked increase in the incidence of LEUKEMIA, and the early onset of ALZHEIMER DISEASE are also associated with this condition. Pathologic features include the development of NEUROFIBRILLARY TANGLES in neurons and the deposition of AMYLOID BETA-PROTEIN, similar to the pathology of ALZHEIMER DISEASE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p213)
fetal; alcohol syndrome (dysmorphic)	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fetal alcohol syndrome (dysmorphic)	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
fetus; alcohol syndrome	disorder occurring in children born to alcoholic women who continue to drink heavily during pregnancy; common abnormalities are growth deficiency (prenatal and postnatal), altered morphogenesis, mental deficiency, and characteristic facies - small eyes and flattened nasal bridge; fine motor dysfunction and tremulousness are observed in the newborn.
marker x syndromes	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
x fragile syndrome	A condition characterized genotypically by mutation of the distal end of the long arm of the X chromosome (at gene loci FRAXA or FRAXE) and phenotypically by cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, SEIZURES, language delay, and enlargement of the ears, head, and testes. INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY occurs in nearly all males and roughly 50% of females with the full mutation of FRAXA. (From Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p226)
dysgenetic_gonad	A number of syndromes with defective gonadal developments such as streak GONADS and dysgenetic testes or ovaries. The spectrum of gonadal and sexual abnormalities is reflected in their varied sex chromosome (SEX CHROMOSOMES) constitution as shown by the karyotypes of 45,X monosomy (TURNER SYNDROME); 46,XX (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46XX); 46,XY (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, 46,XY); and sex chromosome MOSAICISM; (GONADAL DYSGENESIS, MIXED). Their phenotypes range from female, through ambiguous, to male. This concept includes gonadal agenesis.
gonadal dysgenesis	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
syndrome, hallermann-streiff	An oculomandibulofacial syndrome principally characterized by dyscephaly (usually brachycephaly), parrot nose, mandibular hypoplasia, proportionate nanism, hypotrichosis, bilateral congenital cataracts, and microphthalmia. (Dorland, 27th ed)
hamartoma nos	A focal malformation resembling a neoplasm, composed of an overgrowth of mature cells and tissues that normally occur in the affected area.
cerebello-retinal angiomatoses, familial	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene. This syndrome is characterized by abnormal growth of small blood vessels leading to a host of neoplasms. They include HEMANGIOBLASTOMA in the RETINA; CEREBELLUM; and SPINAL CORD; PHEOCHROMOCYTOMA; pancreatic tumors; and renal cell carcinoma (see CARCINOMA, RENAL CELL). Common clinical signs include HYPERTENSION and neurological dysfunctions.
kartageners triad	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
kartagener syndrome (disorder)	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
kartagener triad	An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a triad of DEXTROCARDIA; INFERTILITY; and SINUSITIS. The syndrome is caused by mutations of DYNEIN genes encoding motility proteins which are components of sperm tails, and CILIA in the respiratory and the reproductive tracts.
klinefelter syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
chromosome xxy syndrome	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
xxy syndrome (klinefelter syndrome)	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
syndromes, klinefelter	A form of male HYPOGONADISM, characterized by the presence of an extra X CHROMOSOME, small TESTES, seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, elevated levels of GONADOTROPINS, low serum TESTOSTERONE, underdeveloped secondary sex characteristics, and male infertility (INFERTILITY, MALE). Patients tend to have long legs and a slim, tall stature. GYNECOMASTIA is present in many of the patients. The classic form has the karyotype 47,XXY. Several karyotype variants include 48,XXYY; 48,XXXY; 49,XXXXY, and mosaic patterns ( 46,XY/47,XXY; 47,XXY/48,XXXY, etc.).
congenital dysplastic angiopathy	A congenital disorder that is characterized by a triad of capillary malformations (HEMANGIOMA), venous malformations (ARTERIOVENOUS FISTULA), and soft tissue or bony hypertrophy of the limb. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the VG5Q gene which encodes a strong angiogenesis stimulator.
marfan syndrome	An autosomal dominant disorder of CONNECTIVE TISSUE with abnormal features in the heart, the eye, and the skeleton. Cardiovascular manifestations include MITRAL VALVE PROLAPSE, dilation of the AORTA, and aortic dissection. Other features include lens displacement (ectopia lentis), disproportioned long limbs and enlarged DURA MATER (dural ectasia). Marfan syndrome (type 1) is associated with mutations in the gene encoding FIBRILLIN-1 (FBN1), a major element of extracellular microfibrils of connective tissue. Mutations in the gene encoding TYPE II TGF-BETA RECEPTOR (TGFBR2) are associated with Marfan syndrome type 2.
monosomy	The condition in which one chromosome of a pair is missing. In a normally diploid cell it is represented symbolically as 2N-1.
nail-patella syndrome (diagnosis)	A syndrome of multiple abnormalities characterized by the absence or hypoplasia of the PATELLA and congenital nail dystrophy. It is a genetically determined autosomal dominant trait.
turner kieser syndrome	A syndrome of multiple abnormalities characterized by the absence or hypoplasia of the PATELLA and congenital nail dystrophy. It is a genetically determined autosomal dominant trait.
turner-kieser syndrome	A syndrome of multiple abnormalities characterized by the absence or hypoplasia of the PATELLA and congenital nail dystrophy. It is a genetically determined autosomal dominant trait.
nail-patella syndrome	A syndrome of multiple abnormalities characterized by the absence or hypoplasia of the PATELLA and congenital nail dystrophy. It is a genetically determined autosomal dominant trait.
von recklinghausens dis	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
neurofibromatosis type 1	An autosomal dominant inherited disorder (with a high frequency of spontaneous mutations) that features developmental changes in the nervous system, muscles, bones, and skin, most notably in tissue derived from the embryonic NEURAL CREST. Multiple hyperpigmented skin lesions and subcutaneous tumors are the hallmark of this disease. Peripheral and central nervous system neoplasms occur frequently, especially OPTIC NERVE GLIOMA and NEUROFIBROSARCOMA. NF1 is caused by mutations which inactivate the NF1 gene (GENES, NEUROFIBROMATOSIS 1) on chromosome 17q. The incidence of learning disabilities is also elevated in this condition. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp1014-18) There is overlap of clinical features with NOONAN SYNDROME in a syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome. Both the PTPN11 and NF1 gene products are involved in the SIGNAL TRANSDUCTION pathway of Ras (RAS PROTEINS).
turner's phenotype, karyotype normal	A genetically heterogeneous, multifaceted disorder characterized by short stature, webbed neck, ptosis, skeletal malformations, hypertelorism, hormonal imbalance, CRYPTORCHIDISM, multiple cardiac abnormalities (most commonly including PULMONARY VALVE STENOSIS), and some degree of INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY. The phenotype bears similarities to that of TURNER SYNDROME that occurs only in females and has its basis in a 45, X karyotype abnormality. Noonan syndrome occurs in both males and females with a normal karyotype (46,XX and 46,XY). Mutations in a several genes (PTPN11, KRAS, SOS1, NF1 and RAF1) have been associated the NS phenotype. Mutations in PTPN11 are the most common. LEOPARD SYNDROME, a disorder that has clinical features overlapping those of Noonan Syndrome, is also due to mutations in PTPN11. In addition, there is overlap with the syndrome called neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome due to mutations in NF1.
robins sequence	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
pierre robin syndrome	Congenital malformation characterized by MICROGNATHIA or RETROGNATHIA; GLOSSOPTOSIS and CLEFT PALATE. The mandibular abnormalities often result in difficulties in sucking and swallowing. The syndrome may be isolated or associated with other syndromes (e.g., ANDERSEN SYNDROME; CAMPOMELIC DYSPLASIA). Developmental mis-expression of SOX9 TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR gene on chromosome 17q and its surrounding region is associated with the syndrome.
polyploidy	The chromosomal constitution of a cell containing multiples of the normal number of CHROMOSOMES; includes triploidy (symbol: 3N), tetraploidy (symbol: 4N), etc.
syndrome, labhart-willi	An autosomal dominant disorder caused by deletion of the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 (15q11-q13) or by inheritance of both of the pair of chromosomes 15 from the mother (UNIPARENTAL DISOMY) which are imprinted (GENETIC IMPRINTING) and hence silenced. Clinical manifestations include MENTAL RETARDATION; MUSCULAR HYPOTONIA; HYPERPHAGIA; OBESITY; short stature; HYPOGONADISM; STRABISMUS; and HYPERSOMNOLENCE. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p229)
sex chromosome anomaly nos (disorder)	Avvikande antal av eller struktur på könskromosomerna. Många könskromosomavvikelser, men inte alla, är orsak till könskromosomrubbningar.
faldh deficiency	An autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder characterized by severe ichthyosis MENTAL RETARDATION; SPASTIC PARAPLEGIA; and congenital ICHTHYOSIS. It is caused by mutation of gene encoding microsomal fatty ALDEHYDE DEHYDROGENASE leading to defect in fatty alcohol metabolism.
sturge-weber sequence (disorder)	A non-inherited congenital condition with vascular and neurological abnormalities. It is characterized by facial vascular nevi (PORT-WINE STAIN), and capillary angiomatosis of intracranial membranes (MENINGES; CHOROID). Neurological features include EPILEPSY; cognitive deficits; GLAUCOMA; and visual defects.
chromosomal translocation	rearrangement in which part of a chromosome is detached by breakage and becomes attached to another chromosome.
translocations, chromosomal	rearrangement in which part of a chromosome is detached by breakage and becomes attached to another chromosome.
trisomy	The possession of a third chromosome of any one type in an otherwise diploid cell.
chromosomal triplications	The possession of a third chromosome of any one type in an otherwise diploid cell.
disease, bourneville-pringle's	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
sclerosis brain	Autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome classically characterized by MENTAL RETARDATION; EPILEPSY; and skin lesions (e.g., adenoma sebaceum and hypomelanotic macules). There is, however, considerable heterogeneity in the neurologic manifestations. It is also associated with cortical tuber and HAMARTOMAS formation throughout the body, especially the heart, kidneys, and eyes. Mutations in two loci TSC1 and TSC2 that encode hamartin and tuberin, respectively, are associated with the disease.
gonadal dysgenesis syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
syndrome; turner	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
karyotype 45, x	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
turners syndrome	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
xo genotype	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
turner's syndrome nos	A syndrome of defective gonadal development in phenotypic females associated with the karyotype 45,X (or 45,XO). Patients generally are of short stature with undifferentiated GONADS (streak gonads), SEXUAL INFANTILISM, HYPOGONADISM, webbing of the neck, cubitus valgus, elevated GONADOTROPINS, decreased ESTRADIOL level in blood, and CONGENITAL HEART DEFECTS. NOONAN SYNDROME (also called Pseudo-Turner Syndrome and Male Turner Syndrome) resembles this disorder; however, it occurs in males and females with a normal karyotype and is inherited as an autosomal dominant.
twins; fusion	MONOZYGOTIC TWINS who are joined in utero. They may be well developed and share only a superficial connection, often in the frontal, transverse or sagittal body plane, or they may share a partial duplication of a body structure. Alternatively, there may be a small and incompletely developed twin conjoined to a larger, more fully developed twin.
xyy karyotype	Abnormal genetic constitution in males characterized by an extra Y chromosome.
cerebrohepatorenal syndrome	An autosomal recessive disorder due to defects in PEROXISOME biogenesis which involves more than 13 genes encoding peroxin proteins of the peroxisomal membrane and matrix. Zellweger syndrome is typically seen in the neonatal period with features such as dysmorphic skull; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; visual compromise; SEIZURES; progressive degeneration of the KIDNEYS and the LIVER. Zellweger-like syndrome refers to phenotypes resembling the neonatal Zellweger syndrome but seen in children or adults with apparently intact peroxisome biogenesis.
cerebrohepatorenal syndrome (zellweger syndrome)	An autosomal recessive disorder due to defects in PEROXISOME biogenesis which involves more than 13 genes encoding peroxin proteins of the peroxisomal membrane and matrix. Zellweger syndrome is typically seen in the neonatal period with features such as dysmorphic skull; MUSCLE HYPOTONIA; SENSORINEURAL HEARING LOSS; visual compromise; SEIZURES; progressive degeneration of the KIDNEYS and the LIVER. Zellweger-like syndrome refers to phenotypes resembling the neonatal Zellweger syndrome but seen in children or adults with apparently intact peroxisome biogenesis.
trisomy syndrome 13	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
13 trisomy	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
d1 trisomy syndrome	A syndrome characterized by the presence of three complete copies of genetic material for chromosome 13, instead of the normal two. It leads to a variety of abnormalities that include mental retardation, microcephaly, low-set ears, eye structural defects, polydactyly, and limb abnormalities.
radial aplasia-amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
radial aplasia-thrombocytopenia syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
syndrome; tar	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
thrombocytopenia; absent radius, syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
thrombocytopenia-absent radius syndrome	A rare syndrome characterized by the presence of thrombocytopenia associated with bilateral absence of the radius bone.
xxx chromosome syndrome	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
karyotype 47,xxx	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
xxx syndrome	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
trisomy x	A form of chromosomal variation characterized by the presence of an extra X chromosome in each cell of a human female.
oculofacial; paralysis	A syndrome of congenital facial paralysis, frequently associated with abducens palsy and other congenital abnormalities including lingual palsy, clubfeet, brachial disorders, cognitive deficits, and pectoral muscle defects. Pathologic findings are variable and include brain stem nuclear aplasia, facial nerve aplasia, and facial muscle aplasia, consistent with a multifactorial etiology. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p1020)
craniocarpotarsal dystrophy	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
arthrogryposis, distal, type 2a	A rare syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant or recessive pattern and caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. It is a severe form of arthrogryposis. It is characterized by the presence of distinctive facial features (small mouth, midface hypoplasia, short nose, drooping of the eyelids, deep folds in the area between the nose and the lips, and strabismus), joint deformities that lead to permanently bent fingers and toes, club foot, scoliosis, and walking difficulties.
goldenhar syndrome (disorder)	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
dysplasias, lateral facial	Mandibulofacial dysostosis with congenital eyelid dermoids.
otopalatodigital syndrome type 1	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
oto-palato-digital syndrome, type i (disorder)	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
oto palatal digital syndrome	A rare, X-linked dominant inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the FLNA gene. It is characterized by hearing loss caused by malformations in the ossicles, cleft palate, wide-set eyes, prominent brow ridges, small and flat nose, and skeletal abnormalities in the fingers and toes. Males usually experience more severe symptoms than females.
syndrome; popliteal web	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
popliteal web; syndrome	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
popliteal pterygium syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic malformation disorder with characteristics of cleft lip, with or without cleft palate, contractures of the lower extremities, abnormal external genitalia, syndactyly of fingers and/or toes, and a pyramidal skin fold over the hallux nail. Associated with mutations in the IRF6 gene (1q32.2-q32.3) which is involved in the formation of connective and epithelial tissues. Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
dysmorphodystrophy, congenital mesodermal	Rare congenital disorder of connective tissue characterized by brachydactyly, joint stiffness, childhood onset of ocular abnormalities (e.g., microspherophakia, ECTOPIA LENTIS; GLAUCOMA), and proportionate short stature. Cardiovascular anomalies are occasionally seen.
fetal hydantoin syndrome (diagnosis)	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to phenytoin during pregnancy. Manifestations include dysmorphic craniofacial features, hypoplastic distal phalanges and nails, growth delay and delayed psychomotor development.
fetal anticoagulant syndrome	A teratogenic disorder observed in a newborn or child of a mother who was exposed to warfarin during pregnancy. Manifestations include nasal bridge depression, nasal bones hypoplasia, microcephaly, congenital heart disorders, and brachydactyly.
trisomy 20	A rare chromosomal anomaly syndrome with a highly variable phenotype ranging from normal (in the majority of cases) to a mild, subtle phenotype. Principle characteristics are spinal abnormalities (stenosis, vertebral fusion, and kyphosis), hypotonia, lifelong constipation, sloped shoulders, skin pigmentation abnormalities (linear and whorled nevoid hypermelanosis) and significant learning disabilities despite normal intelligence. More severe phenotypes, with patients presenting psychomotor and speech delay, mild facial dysmorphism, cardiac (ventricular septal defect, dysplastic tricuspid mitral valve) and renal anomalies (horseshoe kidneys) have also been reported.
syndrome; trisomy, 22	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
trisomy 22 (disorder)	A chromosomal abnormality consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells.
48 xxxx	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
xxxx syndrome; female	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
48 xxxx syndrome	A sex chromosome anomaly caused by the presence of two extra X chromosomes in females (48,XXXX instead of 46,XX). This disorder is associated with delayed speech, learning difficulties, developmental delay and facial dysmorphism. Although disease severity is variable, the learning difficulties and developmental delay are generally mild to moderate. Commonly associated facial features include hypertelorism, upslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds and a flat nasal bridge. Other anomalies may include dental abnormalities, hypotonia and joint laxity, radioulnar synostosis, heart defects, hip dysplasia, and ovarian dysfunction. An increased susceptibility to infections during childhood has also been reported.
49,xxxxx syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
xxxxx syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
penta x syndrome (disorder)	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
syndrome; penta x	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
xxxxx; syndrome	A rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra X chromosomes.
synophthalmia	The most severe form of holoprosencephaly in which there is a complete absence of midline forebrain division resulting in the presence of fused hemispheres and a single ventricle (alobar holoprosencephaly). It is mapped to chromosome 21q22.
epignathus	Epignathus is a teratoma originating from the upper jaw, usually connected with the sphenoid bone or hard palate. [PMID:19240824, UToronto:chum]
de lange's syndrome	A syndrome characterized by growth retardation, severe MENTAL RETARDATION, short stature, a low-pitched growling cry, brachycephaly, low-set ears, webbed neck, carp mouth, depressed nasal bridge, bushy eyebrows meeting at the midline, hirsutism, and malformations of the hands. The condition may occur sporadically or be associated with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance or duplication of the long arm of chromosome 3. (Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, p231)
dicentric chromosome	An abnormal chromosome with two centromeres as opposed to the normal one centromere.
xy females (disorder)	A person who has a chromosome composition of 46 XY and who is phenotypically female.
cantrell haller ravitch syndrome	Rare congenital deformity syndrome characterized by a combination of five anomalies as a result of neural tube defect. The five anomalies are a midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect (e.g., OMPHALOCELE), a lower STERNUM defect, a congenital intracardiac defect, an anterior DIAPHRAGM defect, and a diaphragmatic PERICARDIUM defect (e.g., PERICARDIAL EFFUSION). Variants with incomplete and variable combinations of the defects are known. ECTOPIA CORDIS; CLEFT LIP; and CLEFT PALATE are often associated with the syndrome.
bardet biedl syndrome	En autosomal, recessiv störning kännetecknad av retinitis pigmentosa, polydaktyli, övervikt, psykisk funktionsnedsättning, hypogenitalism, njurdysplasi och kortvuxenhet. Syndromet skiljer sig från Laurence-Moons syndrom.
chromosome; 21, trisomy, mosaicism	The presence of cells with and without three copies of chromosome 21 in either somatic or germinal tissue.
trisomy; 21, mosaicism	The presence of cells with and without three copies of chromosome 21 in either somatic or germinal tissue.
trisomy 21 mosaicism	The presence of cells with and without three copies of chromosome 21 in either somatic or germinal tissue.
syndrome, kurczynski casperson	Congenital craniostenosis with syndactyly.
ofd1	An X-linked inherited syndrome caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene mapped to chromosome Xp22.2. It is characterized by malformations of the face, oral cavity, and fingers.
balanced chromosomal translocation	Interchanges of genetic material among different chromosomes following the breaking off of pieces of chromosomes such that the total chromosome composition may still contain all of the genetic material.Balanced Chromosomal Rearrangement.
alport's syndrome	hereditary disorder characterized by progressive sensorineural hearing loss, progressive pyelonephritis or glomerulonephritis, and, occasionally, ocular defects; transmitted as an autosomal dominant or X-linked trait.
4p minus syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
del(4p) syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
deletion 4p syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
chromosome 4p syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
wolf-hirchhorn syndrome	Síndrome causada por grandes deleções na porção telomérica do braço curto do CROMOSSOMO 4 (4p) em regiões críticas da síndrome Wolf-Hirchhorn (WHSCRs). Vários genes candidatos têm sido identificados, inclusive WHSC1 e WHSCH2, que parecem ser responsáveis pelo fenótipo central e, em combinação com outros genes ligados e não ligados, determinam a gravidade e a inclusão de fenótipos mais raros. A maioria dos casos tem defeito crânio-facial característico, frequentemente denominado "rosto em capacete grego" - um resultado combinado de MICROCEFALIA, testa larga, glabela proeminente, HIPERTELORISMO, sobrancelhas curvas e altas, filtro labial curto e micrognatia. Além disso, há retardo mental, crescimento tardio, EPILEPSIA e frequentemente uma ampla variedade de defeitos esqueléticos e na linha média, incluindo HIPOSPADIA, CARDIOPATIAS CONGÊNITAS, FENDA LABIAL, FISSURA PALATINA, coloboma, PÉ TORTO, clinodactilia, ESCOLIOSE e CIFOSE.
e3 trisomy	a kind of genetic disease
trisomy 18 syndrome	a kind of genetic disease
trisomy; syndrome, 18	a kind of genetic disease
trisomy 18 nos	a kind of genetic disease
blood group, abo system	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
jaundice due to abo antibodies	A condition of the newborn characterized by the destruction of red blood cells initiated by the transmission of anti-A or anti-B antibodies from a mother to the child via the placenta against A or B antigens of the newborn's blood.
h blood groups	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
abo blood grouping nos (procedure)	The determination of the blood type of an individual by testing for the presence or absence of A antigen and/or B antigen on the surface of red blood cells.
abo blood group system	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood type a (lab test)	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of only the A form of the H Antigen.
blood groups, abh	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood group b (finding)	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of only the B form of the H Antigen.
blood type ab (lab test)	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of both the A and B forms of the H Antigen.
blood-group system, abo	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
type o blood	A blood group indicating the absence on erythrocytes of both the A and B forms of the H Antigen.
abo group	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
groups, blood	classification systems (or schemes) of the different antigens located on erythrocytes; the antigens are the phenotypic expression of the genetic differences characteristic of specific blood groups.
abo(h) blood groups	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
type a blood	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of only the A form of the H Antigen.
abo blood group antigen system, nos	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood group b	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of only the B form of the H Antigen.
h blood group	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood group ab	A blood group indicating the presence on erythrocytes of both the A and B forms of the H Antigen.
abo blood group, nos	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood type o	A blood group indicating the absence on erythrocytes of both the A and B forms of the H Antigen.
abo blood groups	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood group	classification systems (or schemes) of the different antigens located on erythrocytes; the antigens are the phenotypic expression of the genetic differences characteristic of specific blood groups.
system, abo blood-group	The major human blood type system which depends on the presence or absence of two antigens A and B. Type O occurs when neither A nor B is present and AB when both are present. A and B are genetic factors that determine the presence of enzymes for the synthesis of certain glycoproteins mainly in the red cell membrane.
blood type abo	The determination of the blood type of an individual by testing for the presence or absence of A antigen and/or B antigen on the surface of red blood cells.
abomasum (body structure)	The fourth stomach of ruminating animals. It is also called the "true" stomach. It is an elongated pear-shaped sac lying on the floor of the abdomen, on the right-hand side, and roughly between the seventh and twelfth ribs. It leads to the beginning of the small intestine. (From Black's Veterinary Dictionary, 17th ed)
experimental organism anatomical concept	A non-human biological structure, fluid or other substance; excludes single molecular entities.
abomasum	The fourth stomach of ruminating animals. It is also called the "true" stomach. It is an elongated pear-shaped sac lying on the floor of the abdomen, on the right-hand side, and roughly between the seventh and twelfth ribs. It leads to the beginning of the small intestine. (From Black's Veterinary Dictionary, 17th ed)
abomasum structure (body structure)	The fourth stomach of ruminating animals. It is also called the "true" stomach. It is an elongated pear-shaped sac lying on the floor of the abdomen, on the right-hand side, and roughly between the seventh and twelfth ribs. It leads to the beginning of the small intestine. (From Black's Veterinary Dictionary, 17th ed)
stomach, ruminant	A component of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM of RUMINANTS which consists of the ABOMASUM; OMASUM; RETICULUM; and RUMEN.
structure of stomach	An area of the stomach, not otherwise specified.
ruminant stomach	A component of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM of RUMINANTS which consists of the ABOMASUM; OMASUM; RETICULUM; and RUMEN.
ruminant stomach structure (body structure)	A component of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM of RUMINANTS which consists of the ABOMASUM; OMASUM; RETICULUM; and RUMEN.
stomach	An area of the stomach, not otherwise specified.
ruminant stomachs	A component of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM of RUMINANTS which consists of the ABOMASUM; OMASUM; RETICULUM; and RUMEN.
embryo, aborted	Foster av ett däggdjur utstött på grund av framkallad abort eller missfall.
embryonic structure, nos	The anatomical parts that make up an organism in the early stages of development.
structure of abortus (body structure)	Foster av ett däggdjur utstött på grund av framkallad abort eller missfall.
structure, fetal	The anatomical parts that make up a viviparous mammalian organism in the postembryonic period of development.
fetus under 500gms	Foster av ett däggdjur utstött på grund av framkallad abort eller missfall.
embryologic structure	The anatomical parts that make up an organism in the early stages of development.
aborted fetus	Foster av ett däggdjur utstött på grund av framkallad abort eller missfall.
abortifacients	Chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation.
pge<sub>2</sub> preparation	The most common and most biologically active of the mammalian prostaglandins. It exhibits most biological activities characteristic of prostaglandins and has been used extensively as an oxytocic agent. The compound also displays a protective effect on the intestinal mucosa.
abortifacient agent, nos	Chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation.
mifepristone	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
postconception contraceptive agents	Chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation.
prostaglandin f	(9 alpha,11 alpha,13E,15S)-9,11,15-Trihydroxyprost-13-en-1-oic acid (PGF(1 alpha)); (5Z,9 alpha,11,alpha,13E,15S)-9,11,15-trihydroxyprosta-5,13-dien-1-oic acid (PGF(2 alpha)); (5Z,9 alpha,11 alpha,13E,15S,17Z)-9,11,15-trihydroxyprosta-5,13,17-trien-1-oic acid (PGF(3 alpha)). A family of prostaglandins that includes three of the six naturally occurring prostaglandins. All naturally occurring PGF have an alpha configuration at the 9-carbon position. They stimulate uterine and bronchial smooth muscle and are often used as oxytocics.
pge2	The most common and most biologically active of the mammalian prostaglandins. It exhibits most biological activities characteristic of prostaglandins and has been used extensively as an oxytocic agent. The compound also displays a protective effect on the intestinal mucosa.
abortifacient agent (substance)	Chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation.
agents, nonsteroidal abortifacient	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
carboprost	A nonsteroidal abortifacient agent that is effective in both the first and second trimesters of PREGNANCY.
prostaglandin f2 alpha	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
non-steroidal abortifacient agents	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
methotrexate (substance)	An antineoplastic antimetabolite with immunosuppressant properties. It is an inhibitor of TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE and prevents the formation of tetrahydrofolate, necessary for synthesis of thymidylate, an essential component of DNA.
abortifacient agents, nonsteroidal	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
alpha-trichosanthin	Plant-derived ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) purified from the Chinese medicinal herb tian-hua-fen which is obtained from the root tubers of Trichosanthes kirilowii. It has been used as an abortifacient and in the treatment of trophoblastic tumors. GLQ223 (Compound Q), a highly purified form of trichosanthin, has been proposed as antiviral treatment for AIDS.
abortifacient agents, non steroidal	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
pgf<sub>2</sub> alpha tromethamine	A synthetic analogue of the naturally occurring prostaglandin F2 alpha. Prostaglandin F2 alpha stimulates myometrial activity, relaxes the cervix, inhibits corpus luteal steroidogenesis, and induces luteolysis by direct action on the corpus luteum. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1074" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1074" NCI Thesaurus)
misoprostol	A synthetic analog of natural prostaglandin E1. It produces a dose-related inhibition of gastric acid and pepsin secretion, and enhances mucosal resistance to injury. It is an effective anti-ulcer agent and also has oxytocic properties.
abortifacient agents, non-steroidal	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
prostaglandin f2 alpha (substance)	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
4-amino-4-deoxy-10-methylpteroyl-l-glutamic acid	An antineoplastic antimetabolite with immunosuppressant properties. It is an inhibitor of TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE and prevents the formation of tetrahydrofolate, necessary for synthesis of thymidylate, an essential component of DNA.
compound q	Plant-derived ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) purified from the Chinese medicinal herb tian-hua-fen which is obtained from the root tubers of Trichosanthes kirilowii. It has been used as an abortifacient and in the treatment of trophoblastic tumors. GLQ223 (Compound Q), a highly purified form of trichosanthin, has been proposed as antiviral treatment for AIDS.
dinoprost	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
methotrexate	An antineoplastic antimetabolite with immunosuppressant properties. It is an inhibitor of TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE and prevents the formation of tetrahydrofolate, necessary for synthesis of thymidylate, an essential component of DNA.
trichosanthin	Plant-derived ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) purified from the Chinese medicinal herb tian-hua-fen which is obtained from the root tubers of Trichosanthes kirilowii. It has been used as an abortifacient and in the treatment of trophoblastic tumors. GLQ223 (Compound Q), a highly purified form of trichosanthin, has been proposed as antiviral treatment for AIDS.
agents, non-steroidal abortifacient	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
carboprost-containing product	A nonsteroidal abortifacient agent that is effective in both the first and second trimesters of PREGNANCY.
prostaglandin pgf2 alpha	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
mtx	An antineoplastic antimetabolite with immunosuppressant properties. It is an inhibitor of TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE and prevents the formation of tetrahydrofolate, necessary for synthesis of thymidylate, an essential component of DNA.
misoprostol (substance)	A synthetic analog of natural prostaglandin E1. It produces a dose-related inhibition of gastric acid and pepsin secretion, and enhances mucosal resistance to injury. It is an effective anti-ulcer agent and also has oxytocic properties.
methyl-pgf2-alpha	A nonsteroidal abortifacient agent that is effective in both the first and second trimesters of PREGNANCY.
prostaglandin pgf2	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
mtx - methotrexate	An antineoplastic antimetabolite with immunosuppressant properties. It is an inhibitor of TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE and prevents the formation of tetrahydrofolate, necessary for synthesis of thymidylate, an essential component of DNA.
nonsteroidal abortifacient agents	Non-steroidal chemical compounds with abortifacient activity.
15(s)-15-methyl pgf2alpha	A nonsteroidal abortifacient agent that is effective in both the first and second trimesters of PREGNANCY.
product containing dinoprost	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
carboprost product	A nonsteroidal abortifacient agent that is effective in both the first and second trimesters of PREGNANCY.
alpha trichosanthin	Plant-derived ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) purified from the Chinese medicinal herb tian-hua-fen which is obtained from the root tubers of Trichosanthes kirilowii. It has been used as an abortifacient and in the treatment of trophoblastic tumors. GLQ223 (Compound Q), a highly purified form of trichosanthin, has been proposed as antiviral treatment for AIDS.
alpha, pgf2	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
methylaminopterin	An antineoplastic antimetabolite with immunosuppressant properties. It is an inhibitor of TETRAHYDROFOLATE DEHYDROGENASE and prevents the formation of tetrahydrofolate, necessary for synthesis of thymidylate, an essential component of DNA.
misoprostol (product)	A synthetic analog of natural prostaglandin E1. It produces a dose-related inhibition of gastric acid and pepsin secretion, and enhances mucosal resistance to injury. It is an effective anti-ulcer agent and also has oxytocic properties.
product containing dinoprost (medicinal product)	A naturally occurring prostaglandin that has oxytocic, luteolytic, and abortifacient activities. Due to its vasocontractile properties, the compound has a variety of other biological actions.
abortifacients, steroid	Steroidal compounds with abortifacient activity.
product containing mifepristone (medicinal product)	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
steroidal abortifacient agents	Steroidal compounds with abortifacient activity.
trilostane	A synthetic derivative of androstane with adrenocortical suppressive properties. Trilostane reversibly inhibits 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase delta 5-4 isomerase in the adrenal cortex, resulting in the decreased synthesis of mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids and the decreased conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1263" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1263" NCI Thesaurus)
agents, steroidal abortifacient	Steroidal compounds with abortifacient activity.
abortifacient agents, steroidal	Steroidal compounds with abortifacient activity.
steroid abortifacients	Steroidal compounds with abortifacient activity.
mifepristone (medication)	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
11-((4-dimethylamino) phenyl)-17-hydroxy-17-(1-propynyl) estra-4,9- dien-3-one	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
11 beta-[4-(n,n-dimethylamino)phenyl]-17alpha-(propyl-1-ynyl)-delta-4,9-estradiene-17 beta-ol-3-one	A progestational and glucocorticoid hormone antagonist. Its inhibition of progesterone induces bleeding during the luteal phase and in early pregnancy by releasing endogenous prostaglandins from the endometrium or decidua. As a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, the drug has been used to treat hypercortisolism in patients with nonpituitary CUSHING SYNDROME.
spontaneous abortion nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
product containing carboprost	A nonsteroidal abortifacient agent that is effective in both the first and second trimesters of PREGNANCY.
abortions.spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
diethylstilbestrol	A synthetic nonsteroidal estrogen used in the treatment of menopausal and postmenopausal disorders. It was also used formerly as a growth promoter in animals. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), diethylstilbestrol has been listed as a known carcinogen. (Merck, 11th ed)
spontaneous abortion	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
dydrogesterone	A synthetic progestational hormone with no androgenic or estrogenic properties. Unlike many other progestational compounds, dydrogesterone produces no increase in temperature and does not inhibit OVULATION.
spontaneous abortions	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
ethynodiol diacetate	A synthetic progestational hormone used alone or in combination with estrogens as an oral contraceptive (CONTRACEPTIVES, ORAL).
levonorgestrel product	A synthetic progestational hormone with actions similar to those of PROGESTERONE and about twice as potent as its racemic or (+-)-isomer (NORGESTREL). It is used for contraception, control of menstrual disorders, and treatment of endometriosis.
methylergonovine preparation	A homolog of ERGONOVINE containing one more CH2 group. (Merck Index, 11th ed)
norgestrel [progestogen oral contraceptive]	A synthetic progestational agent with actions similar to those of PROGESTERONE. This racemic or (+-)-form has about half the potency of the levo form (LEVONORGESTREL). Norgestrel is used as a contraceptive, ovulation inhibitor, and for the control of menstrual disorders and endometriosis.
miscarriages pregnancy	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
hydroxyprogesterone caproate	Hydroxyprogesterone derivative that acts as a PROGESTIN and is used to reduce the risk of recurrent MISCARRIAGE and of PREMATURE BIRTH. It is also used in combination with ESTROGEN in the management of MENSTRUATION DISORDERS.
miscarriage	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
desogestrel	A synthetic progestational hormone used often as the progestogenic component of combined oral contraceptive agents (ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES, COMBINED).
methylergonovine maleate	The maleate salt of methylergonovine, a semi-synthetic ergot alkaloid with vasoconstrictive and uterotonic effects. Methylergonovine stimulates serotoninergic and dopaminergic receptors as well as inhibits the release of endothelial-derived relaxation factor. This results in arterial vasoconstriction and increased uterine smooth muscle contractions.
abortion (spontaneous)	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
unspecified abortion	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
miscarriage of pregnancy	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
pregnancy loss	expulsion of the products of conception before the completion of gestation.
spontaneous abortion nos (disorder)	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
termination of pregnancy and risk of abortion (smq)	SMQ Pregnancy and neonatal topics was developed to replace original SMQ Adverse pregnancy outcome/reproductive toxicity (incl neonatal disorders) which had discrepancies in term inclusion resulting in maintenance issues. It was also developed to be more compatible with regulatory goals related to pregnancy and neonatal topics. Lactation associated disorders (functional and related to neonatal exposures through breast milk) are also in this SMQ, but fertility-related topics and developmental disorders are not. Referenced during construction of this SMQ was EMA's Guideline on the Exposure to Medicinal Products during Pregnancy: Need for Post-Authorisation Data in which pregnancy outcomes are defined as: Live birth, normal; Live birth, abnormal (including pre-term, term, and post-term birth; small for gestational age infants/ Intrauterine growth retardation; drug withdrawal syndrome in the neonate; malformations; and morbidity); Fetal death (including ectopic, miscarriage and stillbirth); and Termination of pregnancy. Sub-search SMQ Termination of pregnancy and risk of abortion relates to abortions (spontaneous, induced, stillbirth) and their associated complications, and procedures and investigations related to pregnancy termination. Risk factors for abortions are also addressed.
abortion, veterinary	Premature expulsion of the FETUS in animals.
abortion spontaneous incomplete	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
unspecified spontaneous abortion nos (disorder)	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous abortion in first trimester (diagnosis)	Pregnancy loss at less than 14 weeks 0 days gestation.
abortions, spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous abortion in second trimester (disorder)	Pregnancy loss between 14 weeks 0 days and 21 weeks 6 days gestation.
abortion spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
vanishing twin syndrome	A multiple pregnancy that over time is spontaneously reduced by one or more embryos which are then resorbed.
spontaneous abortion (disorder)	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
miscarriage (disorder)	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion spontaneous nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous abortion unspecified	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion - spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
female genital	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
genital, female	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
aborter - recurrent	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
abortion, spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion, incomplete	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
retained products after spontaneous abortion (disorder)	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
missed abortion	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
abortion nos	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
miscarriages	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion complete	Expulsion of all the products of conception following spontaneous, medical or operative pregnancy termination.
spontaneous abortion in first trimester	Pregnancy loss at less than 14 weeks 0 days gestation.
miscarriage in second trimester (disorder)	Pregnancy loss between 14 weeks 0 days and 21 weeks 6 days gestation.
vanishing twin syndrome (disorder)	A multiple pregnancy that over time is spontaneously reduced by one or more embryos which are then resorbed.
peri-implantational loss	Pregnancy loss before 5th week of gestation with no gestational sac visible on ultrasonogram.
disease of female genital organ [ambiguous]	Pathological processes involving the female reproductive tract (GENITALIA, FEMALE).
genitourinary disease nos (disorder)	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the genitourinary system.
pregnancy with abortive outcome (disorder)	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
spontaneous; abortion	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
genital disorder	deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the reproductive system.
unspecified spontaneous abortion nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
female reproductive system disorder	deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the female reproductive system; note that mammary disorders are treed under REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM DISORDER.
pregnancy resulting in fetal death	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
spontaneous abortion (diagnosis)	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
pregnancy with abortive outcome	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
incomplete miscarriage	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
female genital organs	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
spontaneous abortion, fetus	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
unspecified abortion nos	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
abortions	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
genitalia, female	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
female genitalia	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
female genital (qualifier value)	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
abortion;spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous; abortion, fetus	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortions spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
pregnancy loss (diagnosis)	expulsion of the products of conception before the completion of gestation.
spontaneous abortion, nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion; spontaneous	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous abortion unspecified (disorder)	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion, criminal	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortion induced illegally	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortions, missed	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
abortion missed	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
missed miscarriage	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
hydatidiform mole	Trophoblastic hyperplasia associated with normal gestation, or molar pregnancy. It is characterized by the swelling of the CHORIONIC VILLI and elevated human CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN. Hydatidiform moles or molar pregnancy may be categorized as complete or partial based on their gross morphology, histopathology, and karyotype.
moles pregnancy	Trophoblastic hyperplasia associated with normal gestation, or molar pregnancy. It is characterized by the swelling of the CHORIONIC VILLI and elevated human CHORIONIC GONADOTROPIN. Hydatidiform moles or molar pregnancy may be categorized as complete or partial based on their gross morphology, histopathology, and karyotype.
blighted ovums	Pregnancy loss with visible gestational sac or yolk sac or both but no visible embryo on ultrasonogram.
anembryonic pregnancy	Pregnancy loss with visible gestational sac or yolk sac or both but no visible embryo on ultrasonogram.
chorioangioma	Hamartoma-like growth in the placenta consisting of blood vessels. [HPO:sdoelken, PMID:20594143, PMID:24251055]
mole; breus	A large maternal clot that separates the chorionic plate from the villous chorion. [PMID:11125254, UToronto:chum]
subchorionic thrombohematoma	A large maternal clot that separates the chorionic plate from the villous chorion. [PMID:11125254, UToronto:chum]
termination of pregnancy, fetus and newborn	Abortion brought on intentionally.
induced abortion	Abortion brought on intentionally.
miscarriage nos	<p>A miscarriage is an unexpected loss of pregnancy before the 20th week of pregnancy. Most miscarriages happen very early in the pregnancy, often before a woman even knows she is pregnant.</p> <p>Factors that may contribute to miscarriage include</p> <ul> <li>A genetic problem with the fetus</li> <li>Problems with the <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/uterinediseases.html">uterus</a> or <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/cervixdisorders.html">cervix</a></li> <li>Chronic diseases, such as <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/polycysticovarysyndrome.html">polycystic ovary syndrome</a></li> </ul> <p>Signs of a miscarriage include vaginal spotting, abdominal pain or cramping, and fluid or tissue passing from the vagina. <a href="https://medlineplus.gov/vaginalbleeding.html">Bleeding</a> can be a symptom of miscarriage, but many women also have it in early pregnancy and don't miscarry. To be sure, contact your health care provider right away if you have bleeding.</p> <p>Women who miscarry early in their pregnancy usually do not need any treatment. In some cases, there is tissue left in the uterus. Doctors use a procedure called a dilatation and curettage (D&amp;C) or medicines to remove the tissue.</p> <p>Counseling may help you cope with your grief. Later, if you do decide to try again, work closely with your health care provider to lower the risks. Many women who have a miscarriage go on to have healthy babies.</p> <p class="">NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development</p>
habitual aborter - unspecified	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
incomplete spontaneous abortion	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
first trimester spontaneous abortion	Pregnancy loss at less than 14 weeks 0 days gestation.
2nd trimester spontaneous abortion	Pregnancy loss between 14 weeks 0 days and 21 weeks 6 days gestation.
vanishing twin	A multiple pregnancy that over time is spontaneously reduced by one or more embryos which are then resorbed.
chemical pregnancy	Pregnancy loss before 5th week of gestation with no gestational sac visible on ultrasonogram.
genital dis female	Pathological processes involving the female reproductive tract (GENITALIA, FEMALE).
urogenital disease	A non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the genitourinary system.
disorders reproductive systems	deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the reproductive system.
miscarriage, nos	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
spontaneous abortion in first trimester (disorder)	Pregnancy loss at less than 14 weeks 0 days gestation.
global alignment of immunization safety assessment in pregnancy terminology	A subset of terms developed in collaboration with NICHD that focuses on developing common standards, guidance, and tools to strengthen programs of immunization in pregnancy.
global alignment of immunization safety assessment in pregnancy spontaneous abortion and ectopic pregnancy level of diagnostic certainty terminology	A subset of terminology related to spontaneous abortion and ectopic pregnancy, developed by the Global Alignment of Immunization safety Assessment in pregnancy consortium to aid in monitoring and improving fetal and maternal outcomes.
gdc value terminology	Terminology that supports the values for properties in the Genomic Data Commons (GDC) data model.
criminal abortion	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
termination of pregnancy	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegal abortion	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
induced abortion (procedure)	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
abortion illegal	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
unspecified illegal abortion nos	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortion, induced	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegal abortion (diagnosis)	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
top - termination of pregnancy	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegally induced abortion nos (disorder)	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortion (induced)	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegally induced abortion	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
illegal; abortion	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
criminal abortions	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
illegal abortion unspecified	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortion ind	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
unspecified illegal abortion nos (disorder)	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortions, illegal	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
illegally induced abortion (disorder)	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
ind abortion	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegal termination of pregnancy	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
induced abortions	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
abortion; illegal	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
termination of fetus	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
abortions, criminal	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
termination of pregnancy (fetus)	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegally induced abortion nos	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
termination of pregnancy (procedure)	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
illegal abortion unspecified (disorder)	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
abortions induced	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
induced termination of pregnancy (disorder)	Abortion brought on intentionally.
illegal abortions	Illegal termination of pregnancy.
chronic spontaneous abortion	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
female genital tract disorder nos	Pathological processes involving the female reproductive tract (GENITALIA, FEMALE).
miscarriage, recurrent	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
habitual aborter	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
fertility disorders (smq)	Infertility: Failure to conceive (regardless of cause) after 1 year of unprotected intercourse. Up to 15% of couples of reproductive age are affected. Trend by many women to delay child-bearing is also a factor. Both male and female factors are involved in infertility, each gender accounting for approximately 35% of cases: combination of male and female factors accounts for 20% of infertility cases; in remaining 10%, etiology is not known. Some couples have normal results of standard infertility tests for infertility; postulated etiologies are: dysfunctional interaction between sperm and oocyte; poor quality of embryo; disruption at implantation site. Identifying a mutation or absence of a specific gene as reason for infertility may be possible in the future. Certain lifestyle factors have been linked to risk of infertility: environmental and occupational factors; toxic effects related to tobacco, marijuana, or other drugs; excessive exercise; inadequate diet associated with extreme weight loss or gain; advanced age. Drugs associated with development of infertility are: antineoplastic therapies (cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, etc.); combinations of antineoplastic agents and steroid drugs; certain antibiotics; thyroid supplements; others.
habitual abortion	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
recurrent aborter	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
habitual or recurrent; abortion	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
habitual aborter nos	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
abortion recurrent	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
recurrent early pregnancy loss	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
abortion, habitual	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
relapse	The return of a disease after a period of remission.
recurring	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
recurrent	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
recurrent miscarriage	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
relapsing -retired-	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
recurrent abortions	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
recurrent (modifier) (qualifier value)	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
recurrent (modifier) [ambiguous]	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
relapsing (qualifier value)	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
abortion; habitual or recurrent	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
abortion habitual	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
habitual aborter - unspecified (disorder)	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
miscarriage recurrent	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
habitual aborter (disorder)	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
habitual abortions	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
recurrent miscarriages	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
recurrent abortion	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
habitual aborter nos (disorder)	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
abortion;habitual	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
recurrent miscarriage (disorder)	Three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
vaginal expulsion of foetus	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
pregnancy with abortive outcome nos (disorder)	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
relapse, site not specified	The return of a disease after a period of remission.
recurrent (qualifier value)	Applies to a sign, symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign, symptom, or manifestation is not present. []
retained products after miscarriage (disorder)	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
carboprost trometamol	The tromethamine salt of the (15S)-15 methyl analogue of naturally occurring prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) with oxytocic activity. Mimicking endogenous PGF2 alpha, carboprost activates prostaglandin F receptor, a G-protein coupled receptor, on smooth muscle cells, thereby resulting in smooth muscle contractions. When administered intramuscularly on gravid subjects, this agent induces myometrium contractions, thereby initiating luteolysis and consequently parturition. Furthermore, carboprost's action on vascular smooth muscle and gastrointestinal tract sphincters leads to raised blood pressure and induces vomiting or diarrhea, respectively.
incomplete spontaneous abortion (diagnosis)	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
abortions, incomplete	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
retained products after spontaneous abortion	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
incomplete abortion	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
unspecified abortion incomplete (disorder)	The uterus is not entirely emptied of products of conception following spontaneous, medical or operative pregnancy termination.
incomplete spontaneous abortion nos (disorder)	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
unspecified incomplete abortion nos	The uterus is not entirely emptied of products of conception following spontaneous, medical or operative pregnancy termination.
female genital organ structure	The female reproductive organs. The external organs include the VULVA; BARTHOLIN'S GLANDS; and CLITORIS. The internal organs include the VAGINA; UTERUS; OVARY; and FALLOPIAN TUBES.
incomplete abortions	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
incomplete spontaneous abortion nos	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
retained tissue after pregnancy loss	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
sequela	A pathologic condition that results from a disease, treatment, or injury.
retention	The condition of remaining in a place or position or of holding within.
retention of content	The condition of remaining in a place or position or of holding within.
spontaneous abortion: [incomplete nos] or [retained products] (disorder)	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
spontaneous abortion: [incomplete nos] or [retained products]	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
incomplete miscarriage (disorder)	Premature loss of PREGNANCY in which not all the products of CONCEPTION have been expelled.
abortion, missed	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
progesteronum	The major progestational steroid that is secreted primarily by the CORPUS LUTEUM and the PLACENTA. Progesterone acts on the UTERUS, the MAMMARY GLANDS and the BRAIN. It is required in EMBRYO IMPLANTATION; PREGNANCY maintenance, and the development of mammary tissue for MILK production. Progesterone, converted from PREGNENOLONE, also serves as an intermediate in the biosynthesis of GONADAL STEROID HORMONES and adrenal CORTICOSTEROIDS.
ma - missed abortion	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
hydroxyprogesterone caproate (usp)	Hydroxyprogesterone derivative that acts as a PROGESTIN and is used to reduce the risk of recurrent MISCARRIAGE and of PREMATURE BIRTH. It is also used in combination with ESTROGEN in the management of MENSTRUATION DISORDERS.
missed abortion (diagnosis)	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone	Ett hydroxyprogesteron med ungefär samma medicinska användning som progesteron.
missed delivery affecting management of mother	Fetal death after 22 week gestation affecting management of mother
missed abortions	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
abortion; missed	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
miss abortion	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
vaginal expulsion of fetus	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
disorders fetal	Pathophysiological conditions of the FETUS in the UTERUS. Some fetal diseases may be treated with FETAL THERAPIES.
silent miscarriage	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
abortion nos (disorder)	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
retention, nos	The condition of remaining in a place or position or of holding within.
fetal structures	The anatomical parts that make up a viviparous mammalian organism in the postembryonic period of development.
foetal death before 22 weeks with retention of dead foetus	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
miscarriage pregnancy	Expulsion of the product of FERTILIZATION before completing the term of GESTATION and without deliberate interference.
abortion miss	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
missed abortion (disorder)	The retention in the UTERUS of a dead FETUS two months or more after its DEATH.
fetal disorder	Pathophysiological conditions of the FETUS in the UTERUS. Some fetal diseases may be treated with FETAL THERAPIES.
abortion (disorder)	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
content retention, nos	The condition of remaining in a place or position or of holding within.
fetal structure (body structure)	The anatomical parts that make up a viviparous mammalian organism in the postembryonic period of development.
fetal structure	The anatomical parts that make up a viviparous mammalian organism in the postembryonic period of development.
septic abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
abortion; sepsis	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
abortion infective	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
septic abortion (disorder)	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
infected abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
loss pregnancy	expulsion of the products of conception before the completion of gestation.
abortion, septic	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
septic abortion (diagnosis)	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
abortion with sepsis (disorder)	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
infective abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
sepsis	Systemic inflammatory response syndrome with a proven or suspected infectious etiology. When sepsis is associated with organ dysfunction distant from the site of infection, it is called severe sepsis. When sepsis is accompanied by HYPOTENSION despite adequate fluid infusion, it is called SEPTIC SHOCK.
blood	The body fluid that circulates in the vascular system (BLOOD VESSELS). Whole blood includes PLASMA and BLOOD CELLS.
contagious disease	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
abortion with sepsis	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
infectious agent	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
microorganisms	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
abortion infected	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
unspecified abortion (disorder)	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
unspecified abortion with sepsis	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
entityclassmicroorganism	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
abortion, nos	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
abortion septic	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
contagious agent, nos	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
single cell organisms	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
pregnancy with abortive outcome nos	The unintentional or intentional loss of a pregnancy before 22 weeks gestation.
infectious systemic inflammatory response syndrome	Systemic inflammatory response syndrome with a proven or suspected infectious etiology. When sepsis is associated with organ dysfunction distant from the site of infection, it is called severe sepsis. When sepsis is accompanied by HYPOTENSION despite adequate fluid infusion, it is called SEPTIC SHOCK.
septic abortions	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
communicable diseases	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
contagious agent	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
infectiousagent	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
microorganism	organism of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size.
sepsis following abortion (diagnosis)	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
sepsis; abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
abortions, septic	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
sepsis following abortion	Any type of abortion, induced or spontaneous, that is associated with infection of the UTERUS and its appendages. It is characterized by FEVER, uterine tenderness, and foul discharge.
therapeutic abortion procedure (procedure)	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
therapeutic abortion	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
surgically induced abortion therapeutic (treatment)	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
elective abortion	A surgical or medical procedure that terminates a pregnancy by removing the products of conception.
abortion therapeutic	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
therapeutic interventions	Procedures concerned with the remedial treatment or prevention of diseases.
therapeutic abortion nos	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
uterus	The hollow thick-walled muscular organ in the female PELVIS. It consists of the fundus which is the site of EMBRYO IMPLANTATION and FETAL DEVELOPMENT. Beyond the isthmus at the perineal end of fundus, is CERVIX UTERI (the neck) opening into VAGINA. Beyond the isthmi at the upper abdominal end of fundus, are the FALLOPIAN TUBES.
therapeutic abortion procedure	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
counseling;abortion	Consulting with a client/patient, who wishes to have an elective abortion, to discuss and/or plan her treatment. Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
therapeutic abortions	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
therapeutic	Relating to or involved in therapy.
abortion ther	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
abortion; therapeutic	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
legally induced abortion	Lawfully induced expulsion of all products of conception.
evacuations	Removal of the contents of a body cavity or container
therapeutic abortion (procedure)	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
evacuation procedure	Removal of the contents of a body cavity or container
tx	Procedures concerned with the remedial treatment or prevention of diseases.
abortions, therapeutic	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
womb	The hollow thick-walled muscular organ in the female PELVIS. It consists of the fundus which is the site of EMBRYO IMPLANTATION and FETAL DEVELOPMENT. Beyond the isthmus at the perineal end of fundus, is CERVIX UTERI (the neck) opening into VAGINA. Beyond the isthmi at the upper abdominal end of fundus, are the FALLOPIAN TUBES.
counseling for abortion	Consulting with a client/patient, who wishes to have an elective abortion, to discuss and/or plan her treatment. Service is billed in 15-minute increments.
abortion, therapeutic	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
therapeutic termination of pregnancy procedure	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
evacuation - action	Removal of the contents of a body cavity or container
pregnancy termination	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
therapeutic; abortion	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
surgically induced abortion therapeutic	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
abortions therapeutic	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
abnormal delivery	An abnormality of the birth process. [HPO:probinson]
ther abortion	Abortion induced to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
termination of preg.	Intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques. (POPLINE, 1978)
threatened miscarriage	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
3,3'-methylenebis(4-hydroxy-2h-1-benzopyran-2-one)	An oral anticoagulant that interferes with the metabolism of vitamin K. It is also used in biochemical experiments as an inhibitor of reductases.
threatened miscarriages	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
dihydroergocornine	A 9,10alpha-dihydro derivative of ERGOTAMINE that contains isopropyl sidechains at the 2' and 5' positions of the molecule.
threaten abortion	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
dihydroergocristine	A 9,10alpha-dihydro derivative of ERGOTAMINE that contains an isopropyl sidechain at the 2' position of the molecule.
threatened abortion (disorder)	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
dihydroergocryptine	A 9,10alpha-dihydro derivative of ERGOTAMINE that contains an isopropyl sidechain at the 2' position and an alpha-isobutyl sidechain at 5'alpha position of the molecule.
dihydroergotamine (product)	A 9,10alpha-dihydro derivative of ERGOTAMINE. It is used as a vasoconstrictor, specifically for the therapy of MIGRAINE DISORDERS.
dihydroergotoxine	A mixture of three different hydrogenated derivatives of ERGOTAMINE: DIHYDROERGOCORNINE; DIHYDROERGOCRISTINE; and DIHYDROERGOCRYPTINE. Dihydroergotoxine has been proposed to be a neuroprotective agent and a nootropic agent. The mechanism of its therapeutic actions is not clear, but it can act as an alpha-adrenergic antagonist and a dopamine agonist. The methanesulfonate salts of this mixture of alkaloids are called ERGOLOID MESYLATES.
abortion threatened	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
ergonovine	An ergot alkaloid (ERGOT ALKALOIDS) with uterine and VASCULAR SMOOTH MUSCLE contractile properties.
threatened abortion	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
3-(alpha-phenylpropyl)-4-hydroxycoumarin	Coumarin derivative that acts as a long acting oral anticoagulant.
threatened; miscarriage	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
warfarin (substance)	An anticoagulant that acts by inhibiting the synthesis of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors. Warfarin is indicated for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism, and atrial fibrillation with embolization. It is also used as an adjunct in the prophylaxis of systemic embolism after myocardial infarction. Warfarin is also used as a rodenticide.
threatened miscarriage (disorder)	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
anisindione	A synthetic indanedione anticoagulant. Anisindione interferes with the vitamin K-dependent hepatic synthesis of active clotting factors by inhibiting the reduction of vitamin K. This leads to an inhibition of gamma-carboxylation of glutamic acid residues to gamma-carboxyglutamic acid in clotting factors II, VII, IX and X. The consequential effects of this inhibition include a reduced activity of these clotting factors and prolonged blood clotting time.
abortion; threatened	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
ergotamine tartrate	The tartrate salt form of ergotamine, an ergot alkaloid and adrenergic alpha agonist with vasoconstrictor activity. Ergotamine tartrate selectively binds to alpha-adrenergic receptors thereby stimulating vascular smooth muscle and causing vasoconstriction in both arteries and veins. Ergotamine tartrate also blocks serotonin 5-HT1D receptors, thereby also causing vasoconstriction in cerebral blood vessels. Constriction of cerebral blood vessels caused by this agent may reduce the blood flow and pressure in cerebral arteries and may relieve the pain of vascular headaches.
warfarin sodium	The sodium salt form of warfarin, a coumarin and a vitamin K antagonist, with anticoagulant activity. Warfarin sodium inhibits both vitamin K and vitamin K epoxide reductases, thereby interfering with the cyclic interconversion of vitamin K epoxide to its reduced form, vitamin KH2. Vitamin KH2 is a cofactor for the carboxylation of glutamate residues on the N-terminal regions of vitamin K-dependent proteins. As a result, maturation of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X and anticoagulant proteins C and S is inhibited. Without these coagulation factors, thrombogenesis and blood clot formation are prevented. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C1658" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C1658" NCI Thesaurus)
threatened abortion, antepartum	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
dihydroergotamine mesylate	An ergot derivative with agonistic activity for alpha-adrenergic, serotonergic, and dopaminergic receptors. Dihydroergotamine mesylate most likely relieves migraine headaches by binding to and stimulating the 5-HT1D receptor subtype, thereby causing constriction of cerebral blood vessels. However, it has also been proposed that dihydroergotamine mesylate acts upon 5-HT1D receptors on sensory nerve endings of the trigeminal system, thereby decreasing the release of pro-inflammatory neuropeptide release.
abortion;threatened	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
threatened abortion nos (disorder)	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
threatened abortion, antepartum condition or complication	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
threatened abortion (antepartum)	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
unspecified complication of pregnancy	Conditions or pathological processes associated with pregnancy. They can occur during or after pregnancy, and range from minor discomforts to serious diseases that require medical interventions. They include diseases in pregnant females, and pregnancies in females with diseases.
pregnancy; threatened abortion	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
threatened abortion unspecified (disorder)	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
pregnancy; abortion, threatened	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
pregnancy with threatened abortion	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
threatened abortion nos	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
miscarriage, threatened	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
threatened abortion (antepartum) (disorder)	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
antepartum haemorrhage	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
antepart hem nos-antepar	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
antepartum hemorrhage	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
antepartum hemorrhage nos	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
antepartum bleeding	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
antepatum hemorrhage	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
pregnancy complication	Conditions or pathological processes associated with pregnancy. They can occur during or after pregnancy, and range from minor discomforts to serious diseases that require medical interventions. They include diseases in pregnant females, and pregnancies in females with diseases.
threatened abortion, nos	UTERINE BLEEDING from a GESTATION of less than 20 weeks without any CERVICAL DILATATION. It is characterized by vaginal bleeding, lower back discomfort, or midline pelvic cramping and a risk factor for MISCARRIAGE.
abreactions	A process in psychotherapy in which the patient is "desensitized" to emotionally painful, often forgotten (repressed) memories by recalling and reacting to them in the "safety" of the treatment setting.
catharses	The release of ideas, thoughts, and repressed material from the unconscious, accompanied by an emotional response and relief. (From Dorland, 28th ed)
abrin	A toxic lectin from the seeds of jequirity, Abrus precatorius L. Very active poison. Five different proteins have so far been isolated: Abrus agglutinin, the component responsible for: hemagglutinating activity, & abrins a-d, the toxic principals each consisting of two peptide chains are held together by disulfide bonds.
plant poison	poison produced by plants, toxic to other living organisms.
abrins	A toxic lectin from the seeds of jequirity, Abrus precatorius L. Very active poison. Five different proteins have so far been isolated: Abrus agglutinin, the component responsible for: hemagglutinating activity, & abrins a-d, the toxic principals each consisting of two peptide chains are held together by disulfide bonds.
toxin (disposition)	A substance that is produced by a living organism and is toxic, noxious, or poisonous.
abrin (substance)	A toxic lectin from the seeds of jequirity, Abrus precatorius L. Very active poison. Five different proteins have so far been isolated: Abrus agglutinin, the component responsible for: hemagglutinating activity, & abrins a-d, the toxic principals each consisting of two peptide chains are held together by disulfide bonds.
toxin	poison, usually protein, produced by higher plants, animals, or microorganisms that is toxic to other living organisms.
send-chagnamr	Terminology related to the names of chemical challenge agents.
plant poisons	poison produced by plants, toxic to other living organisms.
placental abruption	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
haemorrhage terms (excl laboratory terms) (smq)	This SMQ is a sub-SMQ of Haemorrhages (SMQ). For detailed description, please refer to the one in Haemorrhages (SMQ).
abruptio placentae	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
pregnancy, labor and delivery complications and risk factors (excluding abortions and stillbirth) (smq)	SMQ Pregnancy and neonatal topics was developed to replace original SMQ Adverse pregnancy outcome/reproductive toxicity (incl neonatal disorders) which had discrepancies in term inclusion resulting in maintenance issues. It was also developed to be more compatible with regulatory goals related to pregnancy and neonatal topics. Lactation associated disorders (functional and related to neonatal exposures through breast milk) are also in this SMQ, but fertility-related topics and developmental disorders are not. Referenced during construction of this SMQ was EMA's Guideline on the Exposure to Medicinal Products during Pregnancy: Need for Post-Authorisation Data in which pregnancy outcomes are defined as: Live birth, normal; Live birth, abnormal (including pre-term, term, and post-term birth; small for gestational age infants/ Intrauterine growth retardation; drug withdrawal syndrome in the neonate; malformations; and morbidity); Fetal death (including ectopic, miscarriage and stillbirth); and Termination of pregnancy. Sub-search SMQ Pregnancy, labour and delivery complications and risk factors (excl abortions and stillbirth) relates to abnormal labor, pregnancy, delivery; malpresentation, ectopic pregnancy, placenta issues, and conditions that increase risk of pregnancy complications.
premature placental separation	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placenta disorder	Pathological processes or abnormal functions of the PLACENTA.
ablatio placentae	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
hemorrhage terms (excluding laboratory terms) (smq)	This SMQ is a sub-SMQ of Haemorrhages (SMQ). For detailed description, please refer to the one in Haemorrhages (SMQ).
pregnancy, labour and delivery complications and risk factors (excl abortions and stillbirth) (smq)	SMQ Pregnancy and neonatal topics was developed to replace original SMQ Adverse pregnancy outcome/reproductive toxicity (incl neonatal disorders) which had discrepancies in term inclusion resulting in maintenance issues. It was also developed to be more compatible with regulatory goals related to pregnancy and neonatal topics. Lactation associated disorders (functional and related to neonatal exposures through breast milk) are also in this SMQ, but fertility-related topics and developmental disorders are not. Referenced during construction of this SMQ was EMA's Guideline on the Exposure to Medicinal Products during Pregnancy: Need for Post-Authorisation Data in which pregnancy outcomes are defined as: Live birth, normal; Live birth, abnormal (including pre-term, term, and post-term birth; small for gestational age infants/ Intrauterine growth retardation; drug withdrawal syndrome in the neonate; malformations; and morbidity); Fetal death (including ectopic, miscarriage and stillbirth); and Termination of pregnancy. Sub-search SMQ Pregnancy, labour and delivery complications and risk factors (excl abortions and stillbirth) relates to abnormal labor, pregnancy, delivery; malpresentation, ectopic pregnancy, placenta issues, and conditions that increase risk of pregnancy complications.
accidental haemorrhage	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental separation	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
accidental hemorrhage	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
premature separation of normally implanted placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
complications occurring during labor and delivery	The occurrence of a pregnancy complication during childbirth, which includes both labor (the process of childbirth) and delivery (the birth itself).
abruptions, placental	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
premature separation of placenta (disorder)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
pregnancy; placenta, separation, premature	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
premature detachment of placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
accidental injuries	Injuries resulting from events or circumstances that are unforeseen, unplanned, unanticipated, and without premeditation.
premature detachment of normally implanted placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
traumatic hemorrhage	Vascular rupture, and the resulting loss of blood, due to physical injury.
traumatic hemorrhage (finding)	Vascular rupture, and the resulting loss of blood, due to physical injury.
placenta	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
placenta abruption (diagnosis)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental structure (body structure)	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
premature separation of placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental disorders	Pathological processes or abnormal functions of the PLACENTA.
premature separation of placenta, unspecified as to episode of care or not applicable	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
premature separation of placenta, unspecified	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placentomes (body structure)	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
accidental injury nos	Injuries resulting from events or circumstances that are unforeseen, unplanned, unanticipated, and without premeditation.
placental abruption nos	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
bleeding, nos	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
placental abruption (disorder)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
bleeding (disorder)	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
premature separation of placenta, unspecified as to episode of care	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental structure	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
placental abruption unspecified (disorder)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
bleeding (symptom)	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
placental abruptions	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
non-neoplastic placenta disorder	A non-neoplastic disorder that arises from the placenta. Representative examples include chorioamnionitis, infarction, and malformations.
pregnancy; separation, placental, premature	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placenta abruption	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
pregn compl	Conditions or pathological processes associated with pregnancy. They can occur during or after pregnancy, and range from minor discomforts to serious diseases that require medical interventions. They include diseases in pregnant females, and pregnancies in females with diseases.
urogenital system	All the organs involved in reproduction and the formation and release of URINE. It includes the kidneys, ureters, BLADDER; URETHRA, and the organs of reproduction - ovaries, UTERUS; FALLOPIAN TUBES; VAGINA; and CLITORIS in women and the testes; SEMINAL VESICLES; PROSTATE; seminal ducts; and PENIS in men.
abdomen+pelvis>genitourinary tract	All the organs involved in reproduction and the formation and release of URINE. It includes the kidneys, ureters, BLADDER; URETHRA, and the organs of reproduction - ovaries, UTERUS; FALLOPIAN TUBES; VAGINA; and CLITORIS in women and the testes; SEMINAL VESICLES; PROSTATE; seminal ducts; and PENIS in men.
organ system, female reproductive	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
placental abruption unspecified	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
female reproductive systems	female reproductive organs of any species; in humans, external organs include the vulva, bartholin's glands, and clitoris; the internal organs include the vagina, uterus, ovary, and fallopian tubes.
reproductive system	heading term for the organs, glands, tissues, etc that function in producing offspring.
antepartum hemorrhage accidental	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
gaia terminology	A subset of terms developed in collaboration with NICHD that focuses on developing common standards, guidance, and tools to strengthen programs of immunization in pregnancy.
placenta; abruptio	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
global alignment of immunization safety assessment in pregnancy antenatal bleeding level of diagnostic certainty terminology	A subset of terminology related to antenatal bleeding, developed by the Global Alignment of Immunization safety Assessment in pregnancy consortium to aid in monitoring and improving fetal and maternal outcomes.
abruption, placental	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental abnormality	An abnormality of the placenta, the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange. [HPO:probinson]
placenta; detachment	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
accidental antepartum hemorrhage	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
premature separation of placenta [abruptio placentae]	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
abruption placental	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
accidental antepartum haemorrhage	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placentae abruptio	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
detachment of placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
abruptio placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
prem separ placen-unspec	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
premature; separation placenta	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placental abruption nos (disorder)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
placentae; ablatio	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
antepartum haemorrhage nos (disorder)	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
haemorrhage nos	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
accidental antepartum hemorrhage (diagnosis)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
accidental hemorrhage (finding)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
antepartum haemorrhage nos	A clinical syndrome that is characterized by bleeding during the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Pathologic etiologies attributable to the pregnant state include placenta previa, morbidly adherent placenta, vasa previa, placental abruption, cesarean scar pregnancy, intra-abdominal pregnancy, and uterine rupture.
placenta diseases	Pathological processes or abnormal functions of the PLACENTA.
placenta, nos	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
hemorrhages	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
unspecified placental disorder, unspecified trimester	Pathological processes or abnormal functions of the PLACENTA.
blood; extravasation	Bleeding or escape of blood from a vessel.
placentomes	A highly vascularized mammalian fetal-maternal organ and major site of transport of oxygen, nutrients, and fetal waste products. It includes a fetal portion (CHORIONIC VILLI) derived from TROPHOBLASTS and a maternal portion (DECIDUA) derived from the uterine ENDOMETRIUM. The placenta produces an array of steroid, protein and peptide hormones (PLACENTAL HORMONES).
accidental antepartum hemorrhage (disorder)	Premature separation of the normally implanted PLACENTA from the UTERUS. Signs of varying degree of severity include UTERINE BLEEDING, uterine MUSCLE HYPERTONIA, and FETAL DISTRESS or FETAL DEATH.
abscess nos	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
cefotetan	A semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic that is administered intravenously or intramuscularly. The drug is highly resistant to a broad spectrum of beta-lactamases and is active against a wide range of both aerobic and anaerobic gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms.
abscesses	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
cefoxitin	A semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic resistant to beta-lactamase.
abscess	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
metronidazole	A nitroimidazole used to treat AMEBIASIS; VAGINITIS; TRICHOMONAS INFECTIONS; GIARDIASIS; ANAEROBIC BACTERIA; and TREPONEMAL INFECTIONS.
metronidazole hydrochloride	The hydrochloride salt of a synthetic nitroimidazole derivative with antiprotozoal and antibacterial activities. Although its mechanism of action is not fully elucidated, un-ionized metronidazole is readily taken up by obligate anaerobic organisms and is subsequently reduced by low-redox potential electron-transport proteins to an active, intermediate product. Reduced metronidazole causes DNA strand breaks, thereby inhibiting DNA synthesis and bacterial cell growth.
metronidazole benzoate	The benzoate ester of metronidazole, a synthetic nitroimidazole derivative with antiprotozoal and antibacterial activities.
cefoxitin sodium	The sodium salt form of cefoxitin, a beta-lactam, second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Cefoxitin sodium binds to and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) located on the inner membrane of the bacterial cell wall. PBPs participate in the terminal stages of assembling the bacterial cell wall, and in reshaping the cell wall during cell division. Inactivation of PBPs interferes with the cross-linkage of peptidoglycan chains necessary for bacterial cell wall strength and rigidity. This results in the weakening of the bacterial cell wall and causes cell lysis. Check for "https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/intervention/C28915" active clinical trials using this agent. ("http://ncit.nci.nih.gov/ncitbrowser/ConceptReport.jsp?dictionary=NCI%20Thesaurus&code=C28915" NCI Thesaurus)
5-thia-1-azabicyclo(4.2.0)oct-2-ene-2-carboxylic acid, 7-(((4-(2-amino-1-carboxy-2-oxoethylidene)-1,3-dithietan-2-yl)carbonyl)amino)-7-methoxy-3-(((1-methyl-1h-tetrazol-5-yl)thio)methyl)-8-oxo-, disodium salt,(6r-(6alpha,7alpha))-	The disodium salt form of cefotetan and a semi-synthetic, broad-spectrum, beta-lactamase-resistant, second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic with bactericidal activity. Cefotetan disodium causes inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis by inactivating penicillin binding proteins (PBPs) thereby interfering with the final transpeptidation step required for cross-linking of peptidoglycan units which are a component of the cell wall. This results in a reduction of cell wall stability and causes cell lysis.
inflammations	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
communicable disease [ambiguous]	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
cutaneous abscess	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
abscesses of skin	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
bacterial sp.	One of the three domains of life (the others being Eukarya and ARCHAEA), also called Eubacteria. They are unicellular prokaryotic microorganisms which generally possess rigid cell walls, multiply by cell division, and exhibit three principal forms: round or coccal, rodlike or bacillary, and spiral or spirochetal. Bacteria can be classified by their response to OXYGEN: aerobic, anaerobic, or facultatively anaerobic; by the mode by which they obtain their energy: chemotrophy (via chemical reaction) or PHOTOTROPHY (via light reaction); for chemotrophs by their source of chemical energy: CHEMOLITHOTROPHY (from inorganic compounds) or chemoorganotrophy (from organic compounds); and by their source for CARBON; NITROGEN; etc.; HETEROTROPHY (from organic sources) or AUTOTROPHY (from CARBON DIOXIDE). They can also be classified by whether or not they stain (based on the structure of their CELL WALLS) with CRYSTAL VIOLET dye: gram-negative or gram-positive.
infection	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
skin and/or subcutaneous tissue structure (body structure)	A tissue sample that contains the epidermis, dermis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue.
skin and subcutaneous tissue	A tissue sample that contains the epidermis, dermis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue.
integumental system	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
boil;skin	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
bacterium	One of the three domains of life (the others being Eukarya and ARCHAEA), also called Eubacteria. They are unicellular prokaryotic microorganisms which generally possess rigid cell walls, multiply by cell division, and exhibit three principal forms: round or coccal, rodlike or bacillary, and spiral or spirochetal. Bacteria can be classified by their response to OXYGEN: aerobic, anaerobic, or facultatively anaerobic; by the mode by which they obtain their energy: chemotrophy (via chemical reaction) or PHOTOTROPHY (via light reaction); for chemotrophs by their source of chemical energy: CHEMOLITHOTROPHY (from inorganic compounds) or chemoorganotrophy (from organic compounds); and by their source for CARBON; NITROGEN; etc.; HETEROTROPHY (from organic sources) or AUTOTROPHY (from CARBON DIOXIDE). They can also be classified by whether or not they stain (based on the structure of their CELL WALLS) with CRYSTAL VIOLET dye: gram-negative or gram-positive.
skin and subcutaneous tissue structure (body structure)	A tissue sample that contains the epidermis, dermis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue.
skins	The outer covering of the body that protects it from the environment. It is composed of the DERMIS and the EPIDERMIS.
inflammatory disorder corticosteroid sensitive aseptic abscess syndrome	A well-defined entity within the group of auto inflammatory disorders, it is a rare disease with 49 cases documented so far. It affects mainly young adults and is characterized by recurrent attacks of fever and deep abscess-like collections, most frequently localized in the abdomen. Aseptic abscesses may be either isolated or associated with an underlying condition such as relapsing polychondritis or inflammatory bowel disease. Antibiotics fail to cure the patients but dramatic improvements are seen with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs.
inflammatory disorder	An infectious or non infectious disorder characterized by signs and symptoms derived from focal or extensive tissue infiltration by acute (e.g., polymorphonuclear) or chronic (e.g., lymphocytic-plasmacytic) inflammatory cells. Representative examples of infectious disorders include viral infections, bacterial infections, and parasitic infections. Representative examples of non-infectious inflammatory disorders include inflammatory bowel disease and inflammatory polyps.
pleural empyema (disorder)	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
abscess (diagnosis)	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
thorax abscess nos (disorder)	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
inflammatory disorder abscess	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
intracranial abscess, nos	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
intracranial abscess	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
abscess morphology	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
abscess of skin and/or subcutaneous tissue (disorder)	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
corneal abscess	An abscess of the cornea.
parapharyngeal; abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
abscess nos (disorder)	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
abscess retropharyngeal	An accumulation of purulent material in the space between the PHARYNX and the CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. This usually results from SUPPURATION of retropharyngeal LYMPH NODES in patients with UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS, perforation of the pharynx, or head and neck injuries.
abdomen--abscess	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abscess of anal and rectal regions	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
epidural abscess (disorder)	Circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial EPIDURAL SPACE. The majority of epidural abscesses occur in the spinal canal and are associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a vertebral body; ANALGESIA, EPIDURAL; and other conditions. Clinical manifestations include local and radicular pain, weakness, sensory loss, URINARY INCONTINENCE, and FECAL INCONTINENCE. Cranial epidural abscesses are usually associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a cranial bone, SINUSITIS, or OTITIS MEDIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p710 and pp1240-1; J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998 Aug;65(2):209-12)
abscessed lymph nodes	An abscess that develops in a lymph node and the surrounding tissues as a result of an infectious process. The affected lymph node is palpable and tender.
splenic abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen. [PMID:21319348]
tuberculous abscess (disorder)	An abscess resulting from infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
sacrococcygeal fistula	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
corticosteroid sensitive aseptic abscess syndrome (diagnosis)	A well-defined entity within the group of auto inflammatory disorders, it is a rare disease with 49 cases documented so far. It affects mainly young adults and is characterized by recurrent attacks of fever and deep abscess-like collections, most frequently localized in the abdomen. Aseptic abscesses may be either isolated or associated with an underlying condition such as relapsing polychondritis or inflammatory bowel disease. Antibiotics fail to cure the patients but dramatic improvements are seen with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs.
infectious diseases	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
disease	A definite pathologic process with a characteristic set of signs and symptoms. It may affect the whole body or any of its parts, and its etiology, pathology, and prognosis may be known or unknown.
inflammatory disease	An infectious or non infectious disorder characterized by signs and symptoms derived from focal or extensive tissue infiltration by acute (e.g., polymorphonuclear) or chronic (e.g., lymphocytic-plasmacytic) inflammatory cells. Representative examples of infectious disorders include viral infections, bacterial infections, and parasitic infections. Representative examples of non-infectious inflammatory disorders include inflammatory bowel disease and inflammatory polyps.
thoracic abscess pleural cavity	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
infective disorder	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
infectious agents	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
atopic dermatitis, elevated ige, and eosinophilia	An autosomal dominant condition caused by mutation(s) in the CARD11 gene, encoding caspase recruitment domain-containing protein 11. It is characterized by the onset of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in early childhood, defects in T-cell activation, increased IgE, and eosinophilia.
brain abscess	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
liver abscess	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
lung abscess	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
rectal abscess	A collection of pus in the area of the rectum. [HPO:probinson]
of skin abscess	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
pancreatic abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
epidural spinal abscess	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
abscess of vulva	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess (morphologic abnormality)	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
inguinal abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
anal & rectal abscess	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
peritoneal abscess	The presence of an abscess of the peritoneum. [HPO:probinson]
tooth abscess	A pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth. [HPO:probinson]
testicular abscess	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
abscess sterile	An abscess not caused by infection with pyogenic bacteria. Operationally, a sterile abscess is inferred if investigations of an abscess fail to reveal evidence of pathogenic organisms. []
microabscess	A very small, tiny abscess.
crypt abscess (morphologic abnormality)	Accumulation of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in the mucosal crypts of the colon. It occurs in ulcerative colitis.
sterile abscess	An abscess not caused by infection with pyogenic bacteria. Operationally, a sterile abscess is inferred if investigations of an abscess fail to reveal evidence of pathogenic organisms. []
inflammation	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
lumps	In medicine, a lump in the body. It may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. A mass may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer).
abscess (disorder)	Accumulation of purulent material in tissues, organs, or circumscribed spaces, usually associated with signs of infection.
abscess cerebral	A circumscribed collection of purulent exudate in the brain, due to bacterial and other infections. The majority are caused by spread of infected material from a focus of suppuration elsewhere in the body, notably the PARANASAL SINUSES, middle ear (see EAR, MIDDLE); HEART (see also ENDOCARDITIS, BACTERIAL), and LUNG. Penetrating CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA and NEUROSURGICAL PROCEDURES may also be associated with this condition. Clinical manifestations include HEADACHE; SEIZURES; focal neurologic deficits; and alterations of consciousness. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp712-6)
empyema, gallbladder	Přítomnost hnisu ve žlučníku.
abscess of thorax	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
pyothorax	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
pulmonary empyema	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
empyema of pleura	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
lung empyema nos	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
purulent pleurisy	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
intracranial; abscess	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
liver abscesses	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
liver abscess (disorder)	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess of liver	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscesses, liver	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
amebic liver abscess	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
abscess amoebic liver	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
ala - amebic liver abscess	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
lung abscess nos	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess lungs	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
lung; abscess	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
pelvic abscess (disorder)	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
pelvic abscess	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
pelvis abscess	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
abscess pelvic	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
abscess of pelvis	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
abscess of pelvis (diagnosis)	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
abscess perianal	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues surrounding the anal canal. Causes include bacterial and fungal infections, malignancies that involve the perianal region, and Crohn disease.
perianal abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues surrounding the anal canal. Causes include bacterial and fungal infections, malignancies that involve the perianal region, and Crohn disease.
apical abscess	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
periapical abscess (diagnosis)	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
dentoalveolar abscess	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
abscess periodontal	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
periodontal abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
abscess; periodontal	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
abscess, periodontal	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
paradontal; abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
quinsy	An accumulation of purulent material in the area between the PALATINE TONSIL and its capsule.
peritonsillar abscess	An accumulation of purulent material in the area between the PALATINE TONSIL and its capsule.
subdural empyema	An intracranial or rarely intraspinal suppurative process invading the space between the inner surface of the DURA MATER and the outer surface of the ARACHNOID.
subdiaphragmatic abscess	Accumulation of purulent EXUDATES beneath the DIAPHRAGM, also known as upper abdominal abscess. It is usually associated with PERITONITIS or postoperative infections.
tubo-ovarian abscess	An abscess involving the distal fallopian tube and ovary. It is caused by pelvic inflammatory disease or other infections.
abscess tubo-ovarian	An abscess involving the distal fallopian tube and ovary. It is caused by pelvic inflammatory disease or other infections.
pyogenic iliopsoas abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
iliopsoas abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
pyogenic iliopsoas abscesses	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
psoas; abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
psoas muscle abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
psoas abscess	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
abscess, pyogenic iliopsoas	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
abscess, psoas	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
rectum; abscess	A collection of pus in the area of the rectum. [HPO:probinson]
abscess of skin (disorder)	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
skin & subcutaneous tissue abscess	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
renal abscess (disorder)	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
renal abscess	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
abscess of parapharyngeal space	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
peripharyngeal abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
parapharyngeal abscess (disorder)	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
retropharyngeal abscess	An accumulation of purulent material in the space between the PHARYNX and the CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. This usually results from SUPPURATION of retropharyngeal LYMPH NODES in patients with UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS, perforation of the pharynx, or head and neck injuries.
renal and perinephric abscess	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
renal and perinephric abscess nos (disorder)	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
renal/perirenal abscess	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
cord infected	Inflammation of the umbilical cord stump in newborns.
mandibulectomies	Surgery to remove part or all of the mandible.
retroperitoneal abscess	An abscess that is located in the abdominal cavity posterior to the peritoneum.
abscess; retroperitoneal	An abscess that is located in the abdominal cavity posterior to the peritoneum.
retroperitoneal abscess (disorder)	An abscess that is located in the abdominal cavity posterior to the peritoneum.
perinephric abscess	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
peri-nephric abscess	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
perirenal abscess	An abscess that is located outside the renal capsule, but which is within Gerota's space.
abscess of pancreas	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
abscess of pancreas (disorder)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
extradural; abscess, spinal cord	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
intraspinal extradural abscess	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
epidural intraspinal abscess	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
epidural abscess, spinal	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
abdomen abscess	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abdominal abscess (disorder)	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abscess; vulva	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
vulval abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
vulval abcess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess of vulva (diagnosis)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
vulva abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess;vulva	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
loin abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
skin abscess of trunk - loin	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
skin abscess of loin	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
abscess of groin (disorder)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
groin abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
loin abscess (disorder)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
abscess of groin	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
skin abscess of loin (diagnosis)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
abscess of axilla	A collection of pus that has formed in the axilla.
periapical abscess with sinus	Localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth and is associated with the presence of a sinus tract.
anorectal abscess nos (disorder)	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
anorectal abscess	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
anorectal abscess nos	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
anorectal abscess (diagnosis)	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
abscess of peritoneum, nos	The presence of an abscess of the peritoneum. [HPO:probinson]
mesenteric abscess	An abscess that is located in any part of the tissue composing the mesentery, and that generally arises from an infection in an adjacent area of the intestine.
pyogenic liver abscesses	Varbildning i leverparenkymet till följd av bakterieinfektion. Abscessen kan vara orsakad av en rad olika bakterier, lokal eller spridd från infektioner i andra organ, som t ex blindtarmsinflammation, gallblåseinflammation, bukhinneinflammation, eller efter levertransplantation.
hepatic abscess, pyogenic	Varbildning i leverparenkymet till följd av bakterieinfektion. Abscessen kan vara orsakad av en rad olika bakterier, lokal eller spridd från infektioner i andra organ, som t ex blindtarmsinflammation, gallblåseinflammation, bukhinneinflammation, eller efter levertransplantation.
pyogenic liver abscess	Varbildning i leverparenkymet till följd av bakterieinfektion. Abscessen kan vara orsakad av en rad olika bakterier, lokal eller spridd från infektioner i andra organ, som t ex blindtarmsinflammation, gallblåseinflammation, bukhinneinflammation, eller efter levertransplantation.
extradural abscess	Circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial EPIDURAL SPACE. The majority of epidural abscesses occur in the spinal canal and are associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a vertebral body; ANALGESIA, EPIDURAL; and other conditions. Clinical manifestations include local and radicular pain, weakness, sensory loss, URINARY INCONTINENCE, and FECAL INCONTINENCE. Cranial epidural abscesses are usually associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a cranial bone, SINUSITIS, or OTITIS MEDIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p710 and pp1240-1; J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998 Aug;65(2):209-12)
epidural abscess	Circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial EPIDURAL SPACE. The majority of epidural abscesses occur in the spinal canal and are associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a vertebral body; ANALGESIA, EPIDURAL; and other conditions. Clinical manifestations include local and radicular pain, weakness, sensory loss, URINARY INCONTINENCE, and FECAL INCONTINENCE. Cranial epidural abscesses are usually associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a cranial bone, SINUSITIS, or OTITIS MEDIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p710 and pp1240-1; J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998 Aug;65(2):209-12)
abscess of pituitary (disorder)	An inflammatory or infectious process in the pituitary gland characterized by a circumscribed, walled collection of purulent material.
pituitary abscess	An inflammatory or infectious process in the pituitary gland characterized by a circumscribed, walled collection of purulent material.
lymph node abscess	An abscess that develops in a lymph node and the surrounding tissues as a result of an infectious process. The affected lymph node is palpable and tender.
spleen abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen. [PMID:21319348]
splenic abscess (disorder)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen. [PMID:21319348]
neurocoenurosis	Infection of the brain, spinal cord, or perimeningeal structures with the larval forms of the genus TAENIA (primarily T. solium in humans). Lesions formed by the organism are referred to as cysticerci. The infection may be subacute or chronic, and the severity of symptoms depends on the severity of the host immune response and the location and number of lesions. SEIZURES represent the most common clinical manifestation although focal neurologic deficits may occur. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1998, Ch27, pp46-50)
neurocysticercosis	Infection of the brain, spinal cord, or perimeningeal structures with the larval forms of the genus TAENIA (primarily T. solium in humans). Lesions formed by the organism are referred to as cysticerci. The infection may be subacute or chronic, and the severity of symptoms depends on the severity of the host immune response and the location and number of lesions. SEIZURES represent the most common clinical manifestation although focal neurologic deficits may occur. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1998, Ch27, pp46-50)
abscess of thyroid	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
abscess of thryoid (diagnosis)	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
thyroid gland abscess	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
dental abscess (disorder)	A pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth. [HPO:probinson]
dental abscess	A pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth. [HPO:probinson]
abscess;testis	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
testicular abscess (disorder)	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
intratesticular abscess	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
abscess of testis	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
abscess of the labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
labial abscess (diagnosis)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
labial abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
abscess of labia (disorder)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
abscess of labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
abscess labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
abscess;labia	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
tuberculous abscess	An abscess resulting from infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
abscess, cerebral	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
cerebral intracranial abscess	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
cerebral abscess	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
pilonidal abscess	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
pilonidal cyst abscess	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
pleural empyema nos	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
pleurisy, purulent	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
parapharyngeal abscess	An abscess that develops in the soft tissues of the lateral pharyngeal space.
abscess, abdominal	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
abscess of spleen	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen. [PMID:21319348]
corticosteroid sensitive aseptic abscess syndrome	A well-defined entity within the group of auto inflammatory disorders, it is a rare disease with 49 cases documented so far. It affects mainly young adults and is characterized by recurrent attacks of fever and deep abscess-like collections, most frequently localized in the abdomen. Aseptic abscesses may be either isolated or associated with an underlying condition such as relapsing polychondritis or inflammatory bowel disease. Antibiotics fail to cure the patients but dramatic improvements are seen with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs.
infectious disease	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
disorder	A definite pathologic process with a characteristic set of signs and symptoms. It may affect the whole body or any of its parts, and its etiology, pathology, and prognosis may be known or unknown.
communicable disease, nos	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
infectious agent (organism)	Any organism, such as a virus, parasite, or bacterium, that is capable of invading body tissues and multiplying.
crypt abscess	Accumulation of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in the mucosal crypts of the colon. It occurs in ulcerative colitis.
sterile abscess (morphologic abnormality)	An abscess not caused by infection with pyogenic bacteria. Operationally, a sterile abscess is inferred if investigations of an abscess fail to reveal evidence of pathogenic organisms. []
localized mass	In medicine, a lump in the body. It may be caused by the abnormal growth of cells, a cyst, hormonal changes, or an immune reaction. A mass may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer).
brain abscesses	A circumscribed collection of purulent exudate in the brain, due to bacterial and other infections. The majority are caused by spread of infected material from a focus of suppuration elsewhere in the body, notably the PARANASAL SINUSES, middle ear (see EAR, MIDDLE); HEART (see also ENDOCARDITIS, BACTERIAL), and LUNG. Penetrating CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA and NEUROSURGICAL PROCEDURES may also be associated with this condition. Clinical manifestations include HEADACHE; SEIZURES; focal neurologic deficits; and alterations of consciousness. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp712-6)
brain abscess (diagnosis)	A circumscribed collection of purulent exudate in the brain, due to bacterial and other infections. The majority are caused by spread of infected material from a focus of suppuration elsewhere in the body, notably the PARANASAL SINUSES, middle ear (see EAR, MIDDLE); HEART (see also ENDOCARDITIS, BACTERIAL), and LUNG. Penetrating CRANIOCEREBRAL TRAUMA and NEUROSURGICAL PROCEDURES may also be associated with this condition. Clinical manifestations include HEADACHE; SEIZURES; focal neurologic deficits; and alterations of consciousness. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, pp712-6)
empyema of gallbladder (disorder)	Přítomnost hnisu ve žlučníku.
empyema, pleural	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
thoracic empyema	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
pleural empyema	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
empyema, chest	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
abscess of thorax (disorder)	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
purulent; pleurisy	Suppurative inflammation of the pleural space.
abscesses hepatic	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the liver as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
ala - amoebic liver abscess	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
amoebic liver abscesses	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
hepatic amebiasis	Single or multiple areas of PUS due to infection by any ameboid protozoa (AMEBIASIS). A common form is caused by the ingestion of ENTAMOEBA HISTOLYTICA.
abscess of lung nos	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess of lung	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
abscess;lung	Solitary or multiple collections of PUS within the lung parenchyma as a result of infection by bacteria, protozoa, or other agents.
inflammatory disorder abscess of trunk - pelvis	An abscess that is located in the pelvic cavity.
abscesses, apical dentoalveolar	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
apical dentoalveolar abscess	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
periapical abscess	Acute or chronic inflammation of tissues surrounding the apical portion of a tooth, associated with the collection of pus, resulting from infection following pulp infection through a carious lesion or as a result of an injury causing pulp necrosis. (Dorland, 27th ed)
periodontal abscess (diagnosis)	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
abscess paradontal	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
lateral alveolar abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
periodontal abscesses	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
parodontal abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
lateral periodontal abscess	Localized circumscribed purulent area of inflammation in the periodontal tissue. It is a derivative of marginal periodontitis and commonly associated with suprabony and infrabony pockets and interradicular involvements, in contrast to periapical abscess which is attributable to pulp necrosis.
peritonsillar abscess (disorder)	An accumulation of purulent material in the area between the PALATINE TONSIL and its capsule.
subdural empyemas	An intracranial or rarely intraspinal suppurative process invading the space between the inner surface of the DURA MATER and the outer surface of the ARACHNOID.
subdural; empyema	An intracranial or rarely intraspinal suppurative process invading the space between the inner surface of the DURA MATER and the outer surface of the ARACHNOID.
tubo-ovarian abscess (diagnosis)	An abscess involving the distal fallopian tube and ovary. It is caused by pelvic inflammatory disease or other infections.
abscess, iliopsoas	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
abscesses, iliopsoas	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
iliopsoas abscess (disorder)	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
iliopsoas abscess, pyogenic	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
psoas abscess (diagnosis)	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
iliopsoas abscesses, pyogenic	Abscess of the PSOAS MUSCLES resulting usually from disease of the lumbar vertebrae, with the pus descending into the muscle sheath. The infection is most commonly tuberculous or staphylococcal.
abscess rectal	A collection of pus in the area of the rectum. [HPO:probinson]
skin & subcutaneous tissue absces	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
skin boil	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
abscesses kidneys	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
renal; abscess	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
corneal abscess (disorder)	An abscess of the cornea.
abscess, retropharyngeal	An accumulation of purulent material in the space between the PHARYNX and the CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. This usually results from SUPPURATION of retropharyngeal LYMPH NODES in patients with UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS, perforation of the pharynx, or head and neck injuries.
retropharyngeal; abscess	An accumulation of purulent material in the space between the PHARYNX and the CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. This usually results from SUPPURATION of retropharyngeal LYMPH NODES in patients with UPPER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS, perforation of the pharynx, or head and neck injuries.
renal and perinephric abscess (disorder)	An abscess that is located both in the kidney and across the renal capsule into the perinephric space.
omphalitis of newborn nos	Inflammation of the umbilical cord stump in newborns.
pancreas abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
pancreas; abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas. []
spinal epidural abscess	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
epidural intraspinal abscess (disorder)	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
abscess of spinal cord, extradural	Spinal epidural abscess (SEA) is caused by a suppurative infection in the epidural space. The mass effect ofthe abscess can compress and reduce blood flow to the spinal cord, conus medullaris, or cauda equina. Left untreated, the infection can lead to sensory loss,muscle weakness, visceral dysfunction, sepsis, and even death. Early diagnosis is essential to limit mor-bidity and neurologic injury. The classic triad of fever, axial pain, and neurological deficit occurs in as few as 13 percent of patients, highlighting the diagnosticchallenge associated with SEA. [PMID:24007734, PMID:26540492]
intra-abdominal abscess	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
intra-abdominal abscesses	An abscess located in the abdominal cavity, i.e., the cavity between the diaphragm above and the pelvis below. (From Dorland, 27th ed)
vulva; abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
vulvar abscess	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess vulva	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess of vulva (disorder)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region. [PMID:27617247]
abscess groin	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin (inguinal region). [PMID:23537455]
abscess of axilla (disorder)	A collection of pus that has formed in the axilla.
axillary abscess (disorder)	A collection of pus that has formed in the axilla.
periapical abscess with a sinus	Localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth and is associated with the presence of a sinus tract.
periapical abscess with a sinus (disorder)	Localized collection of pus in the tissues that enclose the root of a tooth and is associated with the presence of a sinus tract.
abscess - anal/rectal	An abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum. []
intraperitoneal abscess, nos	The presence of an abscess of the peritoneum. [HPO:probinson]
intraperitoneal; abscess	The presence of an abscess of the peritoneum. [HPO:probinson]
mesentery; abscess	An abscess that is located in any part of the tissue composing the mesentery, and that generally arises from an infection in an adjacent area of the intestine.
abscess; extradural	Circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial EPIDURAL SPACE. The majority of epidural abscesses occur in the spinal canal and are associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a vertebral body; ANALGESIA, EPIDURAL; and other conditions. Clinical manifestations include local and radicular pain, weakness, sensory loss, URINARY INCONTINENCE, and FECAL INCONTINENCE. Cranial epidural abscesses are usually associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a cranial bone, SINUSITIS, or OTITIS MEDIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p710 and pp1240-1; J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998 Aug;65(2):209-12)
epidural; abscess	Circumscribed collections of suppurative material occurring in the spinal or intracranial EPIDURAL SPACE. The majority of epidural abscesses occur in the spinal canal and are associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a vertebral body; ANALGESIA, EPIDURAL; and other conditions. Clinical manifestations include local and radicular pain, weakness, sensory loss, URINARY INCONTINENCE, and FECAL INCONTINENCE. Cranial epidural abscesses are usually associated with OSTEOMYELITIS of a cranial bone, SINUSITIS, or OTITIS MEDIA. (From Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p710 and pp1240-1; J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 1998 Aug;65(2):209-12)
abscess of pituitary	An inflammatory or infectious process in the pituitary gland characterized by a circumscribed, walled collection of purulent material.
splenic abscess (diagnosis)	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen. [PMID:21319348]
cerebral; cysticercosis (manifestation)	Infection of the brain, spinal cord, or perimeningeal structures with the larval forms of the genus TAENIA (primarily T. solium in humans). Lesions formed by the organism are referred to as cysticerci. The infection may be subacute or chronic, and the severity of symptoms depends on the severity of the host immune response and the location and number of lesions. SEIZURES represent the most common clinical manifestation although focal neurologic deficits may occur. (From Joynt, Clinical Neurology, 1998, Ch27, pp46-50)
abscess of thryoid	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
thyroid; abscess	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
abscess testis	A collection of pus within a testicle. Ultrasonographic features include shaggy, irregular walls, intratesticular location, low-level internal echoes, and occasionally, hypervascular margins. [PMID:11598263]
abscesses labial	A circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the labia. [PMID:7598776]
cerebral; abscess	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
abscess;cerebral	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
cerebral intracranial abscess (disorder)	A bacterial, fungal, or parasitic abscess that develops in the cerebral hemispheres. Causes include skull trauma, middle ear infection, congenital heart disease, and frontal and ethmoid sinus infection.
pilonidal cyst with abscess (diagnosis)	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
abscess of skin and/or subcutaneous tissue caused by ingrown hair	A hair-containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region. [HPO:probinson]
abscess; intracranial	An abscess that is located in the intracranial space.
pyoureter	An abscess that is located in the ureter.
skin; abscess	An abscess that develops in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Causes include folliculitis, furuncle, skin injury, and bacterial infections. Signs and symptoms include the presence of a swollen, tender, and erythematous nodular lesion in the skin associated with fever and chills.
kidney abscess	An abscess that is located within the renal parenchyma.
cornea; abscess	An abscess of the cornea.
abscess; pituitary	An inflammatory or infectious process in the pituitary gland characterized by a circumscribed, walled collection of purulent material.
abscessed lymph node	An abscess that develops in a lymph node and the surrounding tissues as a result of an infectious process. The affected lymph node is palpable and tender.
abscess; thyroid	A rare disorder characterized by the development of an abscess in the thyroid gland. It usually follows an upper respiratory tract, pharyngeal, or middle ear infection. It is usually caused by Staphylococcus or Streptococcus infection. It presents with fever, pain, and neck mass.
dental sepsis	A pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth. [HPO:probinson]
vaginal abscess	An abscess that is located in the vagina.
adrenal gland abscess	An abscess that is located in the adrenal gland.
parathyroid gland abscess	An abscess that is located in the parathyroid gland(s).
perihepatic abscess	An abscess that is located in the anatomical space surrounding the liver, but which is outside of the liver capsule itself.
prevertebral abscess	An abscess that develops in the tissues within the prevertebral fascia.
send	The terminology subset that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Standard for Exchange of Non-clinical Data (SEND) group.
send-nonneo	The terminology that includes concepts relevant to non-neoplastic microscopic findings.
pediatric infectious disease terminology	Terminology developed by a collaborative effort of the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and an international group of clinicians and informaticists to support the reporting of events in the pediatric population with issues pertaining to infectious diseases.
abscisic acid	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
plant growth regulator	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
2,4-pentadienoic acid, 5-(1-hydroxy-2,6,6-trimethyl-4-oxo-2-cyclohexen-1-yl)-3-methyl-, (s-(z,e))-	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
plant growth regulators	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
abscisic acid (substance)	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
hormone plant	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
regulators, plant growth	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
plant hormone	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
abscissic acid	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
phytohormone	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
growth regulators, plant	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
abscissins	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
hormone-effect protein	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
abscissin	Abscission-accelerating plant growth substance isolated from young cotton fruit, leaves of sycamore, birch, and other plants, and from potatoes, lemons, avocados, and other fruits.
reg plant growth	Any of the hormones produced naturally in plants and active in controlling growth and other functions. There are three primary classes: auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins.
aplasia	A congenital abnormality resulting in the absence of an anatomical structure.
eye; absence, congenital	Congenital absence of the eye or eyes.
absent vertebrae	A developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies. [PMID:26167231]
agenesis (morphologic abnormality)	A congenital abnormality resulting in the absence of an anatomical structure.
absence of vertebra, congenital	A developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies. [PMID:26167231]
corpus callosum, agenesis of	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
absent nipple	Congenital failure to develop, and absence of, the nipple. []
potters syndrome	A rare, lethal congenital malformation characterized by bilateral renal agenesis and the absence or decreased volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). The presence of oligohydramnios gives rise to congenital anomalies that include hypoplastic lungs, lower extremities abnormalities, and characteristic facial features (low-set ears, widely separated eyes, nose flattening, and receding chin). Newborn infants usually die of respiratory failure.
agenesis of diaphragm	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
forepaw apodia	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
transverse deficiency of arm, wrist level	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
aplasia of the foot	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
absent foot	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
agenesis of femur	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of femur with or without absence of some, but not all, distal elements	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
absent nose nos	Complete absence of all nasal structures. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary agenesis	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
agenesis; lung	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
gallbladder, agenesis of	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
agenesis of liver (disorder)	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
liver; absent	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
absent ovary	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
aplasia of the ovary	Aplasia, that is failure to develop, of the ovary. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of uterus	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
uterus; agenesis	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
ablepharon	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
absence of sacrum	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
missing teeth	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
partial agenesis of corpus callosum (disorder)	A partial failure of the development of the corpus callosum. [HPO:curators]
agenesis of the lower vagina	A failure to develop of the lower part of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
cervical vertebrae agenesis	Agenesis of one or more vertebrae of the cervical vertebral column. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis - renal	A congenital abnormality characterized by the absence of one or both kidneys.
congenital asplenia	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
mandibular aplasia	Absence of the mandible. [HPO:curators]
agenesis of mandible (disorder)	Absence of the mandible. [HPO:curators]
agenesis; maxilla	A congenital defect characterized by absence of the Maxilla. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of maxilla	A congenital defect characterized by absence of the Maxilla. [HPO:probinson]
aplasia of the thymus	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of external ear	Complete absence of any auricular structures. [HPO:probinson, PMID:19125421]
acls	Autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by hypogenesis or agenesis of CORPUS CALLOSUM. Clinical features include MENTAL RETARDATION; CRANIOFACIAL ABNORMALITIES; digital malformations, and growth retardation.
absence; larynx (congenital)	A congenital deformity in which there is no laryngeal structure.
agenesis of trachea (diagnosis)	Congenital absence of the trachea.
okihiro syndrome	A syndrome consisting of Duane's syndrome, radial ray anomaly, and frequently, HEARING LOSS, SENSORINEURAL.
amelia, posterior, with pelvic and pulmonary hypoplasia syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of absence of the upper limbs and severe underdevelopment of the lower limbs. Minor facial abnormalities (depressed nasal root, upturned nose, infra-orbital creases, prominent cheeks and micrognathia) were also reported. The syndrome has been described in three fetuses born to non-consanguineous parents.
xlag	A severe neurological disorder that only manifests in genotypic males and includes lissencephaly with posterior-to-anterior gradient and only moderate increase in thickness of the cortex, absent corpus callosum, neonatal-onset severe epilepsy, hypothalamic dysfunction including defective temperature regulation, and ambiguous genitalia with micropenis and cryptorchidism.
vici syndrome	A very rare and severe congenital multisystem disorder with the principal features of agenesis of the corpus callosum, cataracts, oculocutaneous hypopigmentation, cardiomyopathy and combined immunodeficiency. Usually diagnosed in the first years of life. The phenotype is variable but the principal diagnostic features are almost always present at onset or evolve over time. Caused by mutations in the EPG5 gene (18q12.3) which encodes an important autophagy regulator, ectopic P-granules autophagy protein 5 (epg5). Formation of autolysosomes is specifically disturbed by an epg5 deficiency.
tetramelic monodactyly (disorder)	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of the presence of a single digit on all four extremities. The malformation is typically isolated however, aplastic and hypoplastic defects in the remaining skeletal parts of hands and feet have been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
tetraamelia	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
tetra-amelia syndrome	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
tetra-amelia	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
tetra-amelia with multiple malformation syndrome	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
zimmer taub sova syndrome	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
tetraamelia multiple malformations	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
x-linked cerebral, cerebellar, coloboma syndrome	A rare genetic syndrome with cerebellar malformation as a major feature. Characteristics included cerebellar vermis hypo or aplasia, ventriculomegaly, agenesis of corpus callosum and abnormalities of the brainstem and cerebral cortex in association with ocular coloboma. Clinically, patients show hydrocephalus at birth, neonatal hypotonia with abnormal breathing pattern, and ocular abnormalities with impaired vision, severe psychomotor delay, and seizures.
anophthalmos of both eyes	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of ocular tissue in both orbits.
bilateral anophthalmos	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of ocular tissue in both orbits.
bilateral pulmonary agenesis	Bilateral lack of development of the lungs. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of cerebellum and hydrocephalus syndrome	This syndrome has features of infantile hypotonia followed by onset of ataxia, cataract and intellectual deficit by preschool age. Cerebral atrophy also reported. It has been described in four patients from two families.
agenesis of corpus callosum, intellectual disability, coloboma, micrognathia syndrome (disorder)	A developmental anomaly syndrome with characteristics of coloboma of the iris and optic nerve, facial dysmorphism (high forehead, micro retrognathia, low-set ears) intellectual deficit, agenesis of the corpus callosum, sensorineural hearing loss, skeletal anomalies and short stature. Caused by mutation in the IGBP1 gene.
agenesis of internal carotid artery (disorder)	A developmental defect that may be asymptomatic or lead to cerebrovascular lesions. It is a rare malformation, with only around hundred cases reported in the literature. When symptoms are present, they are caused by cerebrovascular insufficiency, compression of the brain by vessels that dilate to compensate for the absence of the internal carotid artery, or the presence of an aneurysm. Associated intracranial aneurysms occur in 25 to 35% of patients.
x-linked intellectual disability with corpus callosum agenesis and spastic quadriparesis syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual and motor deficit, spastic quadriparesis and agenesis of the corpus callosum, without craniofacial abnormalities or seizures. It has been described in four male members of a family. The mode of inheritance is most likely X-linked recessive.
infantile osteopetrosis with neuroaxonal dysplasia syndrome	This syndrome has characteristics of osteopetrosis, agenesis of the corpus callosum, cerebral atrophy and a small hippocampus. It has been described in a brother and a sister born to nonconsanguineous Caucasian parents. The children died at the ages of 1 and 9 months, respectively. Several additional cases combining axonal dystrophy and osteopetrosis have been described.
craniosynostosis fibular aplasia syndrome	An extremely rare genetic disease reported in only two brothers to date with the combination of craniosynostosis (involving both coronal sutures), congenital absence of the fibula, cryptorchidism, and bilateral simian creases. Intelligence is normal. There have been no further reports in the literature since 1972.
aniridia, renal agenesis, psychomotor retardation syndrome (disorder)	An extremely rare syndrome reported in two siblings of non-consanguineous parents with the association of ocular abnormalities (partial aniridia, congenital glaucoma, telecanthus) with frontal bossing, hypertelorism, unilateral renal agenesis and mild psychomotor delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1974.
pulmonary valve agenesis, tetralogy of fallot, absence of ductus arteriosus syndrome (disorder)	A rare congenital heart malformation with characteristics of tetralogy of Fallot (pulmonary stenosis, overriding aorta, ventricular septal defect and right ventricular hypertrophy), complete absence or rudimentary pulmonary valve that is both stenotic and regurgitant and an absence of the ductus arteriosus. It presents prenatally with cardiomegaly, polyhydramnios, fetal heart failure, hydrops fetalis and fetal demise or postnatally with cyanosis and respiratory failure due to bronchomalacia secondary to bronchial compression from dilated pulmonary arteries. It is frequently associated with 22q11 deletion.
isolated arhinencephaly (disorder)	A rare non-syndromic central nervous system malformation defined by the agenesis of the olfactory bulbs and tracts and with characteristics of complete congenital anosmia.
microcephaly, polymicrogyria, corpus callosum agenesis syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic central nervous system malformation syndrome with characteristics of marked prenatal-onset microcephaly, severe motor delay with hypotonia, bilateral polymicrogyria, corpus callosum agenesis, ventricular dilation, small cerebellum and early lethality.
partial corpus callosum agenesis, cerebellar vermis hypoplasia with posterior fossa cysts syndrome (disorder)	A rare hereditary cerebral malformation with epilepsy syndrome with characteristics of severe global developmental delay with no ability to walk and no verbal language, intractable epilepsy, partial agenesis of the corpus callosum and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia with posterior fossa cysts.
sacral agenesis, abnormal ossification of vertebral bodies, persistent notochordal canal syndrome	A rare genetic neural tube defect malformation syndrome with characteristics of sacral agenesis and abnormal vertebral body ossification with normal vertebral arches associated with notochord canal persistence on ultrasonography. Additional findings include bilateral clubfoot, oligohydramnios, and single umbilical artery and in some cases increased nuchal translucency. There is evidence the disease can be caused by homozygous mutation in the T gene on chromosome 6q27.
pulmonary valve agenesis, intact ventricular septum, persistent ductus arteriosus syndrome	A rare life-threatening congenital non-syndromic conotruncal heart malformation with characteristics of absent or severely undeveloped pulmonary valve leaflets (with a restrictive ring of thickened tissue at the place of the pulmonary valve annulus) associated with an intact ventricular septum and a patent ductus arteriosus, manifesting with marked respiratory insufficiency. Additional features include dilated main pulmonary artery (with or without dilatation of pulmonary artery branches), to-and-fro flow at site of the dysplastic pulmonary valve and systolic pressure gradient across narrowed pulmonary valve. Tricuspid atresia and variable extra-cardiac anomalies (for example diaphragmatic hernia or cleft lip/palate) may be present.
agenesis of enamel (disorder)	Una forma de amelogénesis imperfecta caracterizada por formación incompleta del esmalte dental y transmitida como rasgo autosómico dominante o ligado al cromosoma X.
congenital absence of limb, nos	Congenital absence (aplasia) of one or more limbs. [HPO:sdoelken]
aphakia congenital	Absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of vertebra nos	A developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies. [PMID:26167231]
callosal agenesis	Birth defect that results in a partial or complete absence of the CORPUS CALLOSUM. It may be isolated or a part of a syndrome (e.g., AICARDI'S SYNDROME; ACROCALLOSAL SYNDROME; ANDERMANN SYNDROME; and HOLOPROSENCEPHALY). Clinical manifestations include neuromotor skill impairment and INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY of variable severity.
athelia	Congenital failure to develop, and absence of, the nipple. []
absence of diaphragm	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of diaphragm (disorder)	Congenital lack, i.e., aplasia of the diaphragm. [HPO:probinson]
(transverse deficiency of arm, wrist level - hemimelia) or (acheiria) or (rudimentary hand) or (congenital absence of hand)	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
congenital absence of hand	The total absence of the hand, with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna. [PMID:19125433]
transverse deficiency lower limb - ankle level	The total absence of the foot, with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula. [PMID:19125433]
congenital absence of femur (disorder)	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
femur; absent	Failure of the femur to develop. [HPO:probinson]
pulmonary aplasia	An uncommon congenital abnormality characterized by either lethal complete absence of the lungs or varying degrees of underdevelopment of the lung parenchyma. It may be associated with other congenital abnormalities.
pulmonary artery absent	A congenital defect with aplasia (absence) of one of the right or left pulmonary artery. [HPO:probinson, PMID:17192541]
gallbladder agenesis	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
gallbladder; absence, congenital	A developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form. [DDD:hfirth]
congenital absence of liver (disorder)	Absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop. [HPO:probinson]
uterus absent	A congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of the uterus.
complete ablepharon (diagnosis)	Absent eyelids. [PMID:19125427]
congenital spinal anomaly sacral agenesis	Absence (aplasia) of the sacrum. [HPO:probinson]
edentia	Congenital absence of the teeth; it may involve all (total anodontia) or only some of the teeth (partial anodontia, hypodontia), and both the deciduous and the permanent dentition, or only teeth of the permanent dentition. (Dorland, 27th ed)
corpus callosum partial agenesis	A partial failure of the development of the corpus callosum. [HPO:curators]
agenesis of lower vagina	A failure to develop of the lower part of the vagina. [HPO:probinson]
cervical vertebrae, agenesis of	Agenesis of one or more vertebrae of the cervical vertebral column. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of spleen	Congenital or functional absence of spleen
failure of development of lower jaw	Absence of the mandible. [HPO:curators]
aplasia of the lower jaw bone	Absence of the mandible. [HPO:curators]
aplasia of the maxilla	A congenital defect characterized by absence of the Maxilla. [HPO:probinson]
failure of development of upper jaw bones	A congenital defect characterized by absence of the Maxilla. [HPO:probinson]
congenital thymic aplasia	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis; thymus	Absence of the thymus. This feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of corpus callosum and abnormal genitalia syndrome	A rare genetic developmental defect during embryogenesis syndrome with characteristics of agenesis of the corpus callosum, mild to severe neurological manifestations (intellectual disability, developmental delay, epilepsy, dystonia), and urogenital anomalies (hypospadias, cryptorchidism, renal dysplasia, ambiguous genitalia). Additionally skeletal anomalies (limb contractures, scoliosis), dysmorphic facial features (large eyes, prominent supraorbital ridges, synophrys) and optic atrophy have been observed. The disease is caused by mutation in the ARX gene.
hall berg rudolph syndrome	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia, microcephaly, and glaucoma, absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes, and a malformation of the nose. It has been described in two brothers.
absent eyebrows and eyelashes with mental retardation	Syndrome with characteristics of intellectual deficit associated with progressive spastic quadriplegia, microcephaly, and glaucoma, absence of the eyebrows and eyelashes, and a malformation of the nose. It has been described in two brothers.
anorchia	An abnormality of XY sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth. [HPO:probinson]
congenital absence of larynx	A congenital deformity in which there is no laryngeal structure.
congenital absence of trachea	Congenital absence of the trachea.
agenesis of parathyroid gland	Aplasia of the parathyroid gland. [HPO:probinson]
xlisg	A severe neurological disorder that only manifests in genotypic males and includes lissencephaly with posterior-to-anterior gradient and only moderate increase in thickness of the cortex, absent corpus callosum, neonatal-onset severe epilepsy, hypothalamic dysfunction including defective temperature regulation, and ambiguous genitalia with micropenis and cryptorchidism.
vicis	A very rare and severe congenital multisystem disorder with the principal features of agenesis of the corpus callosum, cataracts, oculocutaneous hypopigmentation, cardiomyopathy and combined immunodeficiency. Usually diagnosed in the first years of life. The phenotype is variable but the principal diagnostic features are almost always present at onset or evolve over time. Caused by mutations in the EPG5 gene (18q12.3) which encodes an important autophagy regulator, ectopic P-granules autophagy protein 5 (epg5). Formation of autolysosomes is specifically disturbed by an epg5 deficiency.
holzgreve wagner rehder syndrome	An extremely rare lethal multiple congenital anomalies/dysmorphic syndrome with characteristics of renal agenesis with Potter sequence, cleft lip/palate, oral synechiae, cardiac defects, and skeletal abnormalities including postaxial polydactyly. Intestinal nonfixation and intrauterine growth restriction are also associated. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1988.
tetramelic monodactyly	A rare genetic congenital limb malformation disorder with characteristics of the presence of a single digit on all four extremities. The malformation is typically isolated however, aplastic and hypoplastic defects in the remaining skeletal parts of hands and feet have been reported. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1992.
tetra-amelia syndrome (disorder)	A genetic syndrome characterized by the absence of all four limbs.
zimmer phocomelia	An extremely rare mostly lethal congenital disorder with characteristics of absence of all four limbs and frequent associated major malformations involving the head, face, eyes, skeleton, heart, lungs, anus, urogenital, and central nervous systems. The syndrome has been described in fewer than 20 patients mainly of Middle Eastern descent.
x-linked cerebral, cerebellar, coloboma syndrome (disorder)	A rare genetic syndrome with cerebellar malformation as a major feature. Characteristics included cerebellar vermis hypo or aplasia, ventriculomegaly, agenesis of corpus callosum and abnormalities of the brainstem and cerebral cortex in association with ocular coloboma. Clinically, patients show hydrocephalus at birth, neonatal hypotonia with abnormal breathing pattern, and ocular abnormalities with impaired vision, severe psychomotor delay, and seizures.
bilateral anophthalmos of eyes	A rare congenital abnormality characterized by the complete absence of ocular tissue in both orbits.
bilateral lung agenesis	Bilateral lack of development of the lungs. [HPO:probinson]
agenesis of bilateral lungs (disorder)	Bilateral lack of development of the lungs. [HPO:probinson]
cerebellum agenesis with hydrocephaly	This syndrome has features of infantile hypotonia followed by onset of ataxia, cataract and intellectual deficit by preschool age. Cerebral atrophy also reported. It has been described in four patients from two families.
agenesis of internal carotid artery	A developmental defect that may be asymptomatic or lead to cerebrovascular lesions. It is a rare malformation, with only around hundred cases reported in the literature. When symptoms are present, they are caused by cerebrovascular insufficiency, compression of the brain by vessels that dilate to compensate for the absence of the internal carotid artery, or the presence of an aneurysm. Associated intracranial aneurysms occur in 25 to 35% of patients.
x-linked intellectual disability with corpus callosum agenesis and spastic quadriparesis syndrome (disorder)	This syndrome has characteristics of intellectual and motor deficit, spastic quadriparesis and agenesis of the corpus callosum, without craniofacial abnormalities or seizures. It has been described in four male members of a family. The mode of inheritance is most likely X-linked recessive.
sommer rathbun battles syndrome	An extremely rare syndrome reported in two siblings of non-consanguineous parents with the association of ocular abnormalities (partial aniridia, congenital glaucoma, telecanthus) with frontal bossing, hypertelorism, unilateral renal agenesis and mild psychomotor delay. There have been no further descriptions in the literature since 1974.
microcephaly, polymicrogyria, corpus callosum agenesis syndrome	A rare genetic central nervous system malformation syndrome with characteristics of marked prenatal-onset microcephaly, severe motor delay with hypotonia, bilateral polymicrogyria, corpus callosum agenesis, ventricular dilation, small cerebellum and early lethality.
absenteeism	Chronic absence from work or other duty.
truancy	Student's deliberate, often chronic absence from school without an accepted medical or other justifiable reason.
conation, nos	The observable response of a man or animal to a situation.
behavior finding	The observable response of a man or animal to a situation.
absidia	A genus of zygomycetous fungi, family Mucoraceae, order MUCORALES, which sometimes causes infection in humans.
mucoromycotina	A taxonomic grouping of saprotrophic fungi in the Mucoromycotina subphylum.
absidia (organism)	A genus of zygomycetous fungi, family Mucoraceae, order MUCORALES, which sometimes causes infection in humans.
cdisc	The terminology that includes terms relevant to the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium.
sdtm-microorg	Microorganisms, bacteria, fungi and other organisms.
order mucorales	An order of zygomycetous fungi, usually saprophytic, causing damage to food in storage, but which may cause respiratory infection or MUCORMYCOSIS in persons suffering from other debilitating diseases.
absidia (fungus)	A genus of zygomycetous fungi, family Mucoraceae, order MUCORALES, which sometimes causes infection in humans.
absorptiometry, photon	A noninvasive method for assessing BODY COMPOSITION. It is based on the differential absorption of X-RAYS (or GAMMA RAYS) by different tissues such as bone, fat and other soft tissues. The source of (X-ray or gamma-ray) photon beam is generated either from radioisotopes such as GADOLINIUM 153, IODINE 125, or Americanium 241 which emit GAMMA RAYS in the appropriate range; or from an X-ray tube which produces X-RAYS in the desired range. It is primarily used for quantitating BONE MINERAL CONTENT, especially for the diagnosis of OSTEOPOROSIS, and also in measuring BONE MINERALIZATION.
absorptiometry, dual x ray	An imaging test that measures bone density (the amount of bone mineral contained in a certain volume of bone) by passing x-rays with two different energy levels through the bone. It is used to diagnose osteoporosis (decrease in bone mass and density).
photon absorptiometry	A noninvasive method for assessing BODY COMPOSITION. It is based on the differential absorption of X-RAYS (or GAMMA RAYS) by different tissues such as bone, fat and other soft tissues. The source of (X-ray or gamma-ray) photon beam is generated either from radioisotopes such as GADOLINIUM 153, IODINE 125, or Americanium 241 which emit GAMMA RAYS in the appropriate range; or from an X-ray tube which produces X-RAYS in the desired range. It is primarily used for quantitating BONE MINERAL CONTENT, especially for the diagnosis of OSTEOPOROSIS, and also in measuring BONE MINERALIZATION.
dual x-ray absorptometry	An imaging test that measures bone density (the amount of bone mineral contained in a certain volume of bone) by passing x-rays with two different energy levels through the bone. It is used to diagnose osteoporosis (decrease in bone mass and density).
dexa - dual energy x-ray photon absorptiometry	An imaging test that measures bone density (the amount of bone mineral contained in a certain volume of bone) by passing x-rays with two different energy levels through the bone. It is used to diagnose osteoporosis (decrease in bone mass and density).
abstracted	The process of creating a summary of the main points of an article, argument, or theory.
generic action	A thing done.
abstracting and indexing	Works about activities performed to identify concepts and aspects of published information and research reports.
index	Analytisk emneordsbeskrivelse av arbeider innen et bestemt vitenskapsområde.
abstract	A written summary of the important points of a scientific article.
acacia	A plant genus of the family FABACEAE. The gums and tanning agents obtained from Acacia are called GUM ARABIC. The common name catechu is more often used for Areca catechu (ARECA).
vascular plant	Podskupina rostlin s vyvinutými cévními svazky. Příkladem jsou kapraďorosty a semenné rostliny.
leguminoseae	large family of angiosperm plants characterized by pods.
fabaceae lindl., 1836	large family of angiosperm plants characterized by pods.
academic medical center (environment)	Medical complexes consisting of medical school, hospitals, clinics, libraries, administrative facilities, etc.
environment hospital	Physical, organizational, or psychological characteristics of a hospital, and their potential impact on hospital staff and patients.
med center univ	Medical complexes consisting of medical school, hospitals, clinics, libraries, administrative facilities, etc.
hospital (environment)	Physical, organizational, or psychological characteristics of a hospital, and their potential impact on hospital staff and patients.
teaching hospital	Medical complexes consisting of medical school, hospitals, clinics, libraries, administrative facilities, etc.
hospital	Physical, organizational, or psychological characteristics of a hospital, and their potential impact on hospital staff and patients.
acanthamoeba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba culbertsoni	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba culbertsoni.
acanthamoeba species	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba castellanii (organism)	En art jordlevande amöbor som tillhör familljen Acanthamoebidae. Den kan orsaka hjärninflammation och hornhinneinflammation hos människor.
acanthamoeba (organism)	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba polyphaga	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba polyphaga.
acanthamoeba astronyxis	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba astronyxis.
acanthameba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthameba palestinensis	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba palestinensis.
acanthameba hatchetti	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba hatchetti.
acanthameba rhysodes	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba rhysodes.
genus: acanthamoeba	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba griffini (organism)	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba griffini.
acanthamoeba sp.	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba lugdunensis	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba lugdunensis.
acanthamoeba quina	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba quina.
acanthameba keratitis	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
acanthamoeba keratitis	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
acanthamoeba keratitis (disorder)	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
acanthamoebas	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba castellani	En art jordlevande amöbor som tillhör familljen Acanthamoebidae. Den kan orsaka hjärninflammation och hornhinneinflammation hos människor.
acanthamoeba sp	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba palestinensis	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba palestinensis.
acanthamoeba hatchetti	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba hatchetti.
acanthamoeba rhysodes	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba rhysodes.
acanthamoeba species (organism)	facultative parasite of humans usually causes chronic infectin of the skin or central nervous system; causative agents of keratitis (corneal inflammation and opacity); most common ameba in fresh water and soil.
acanthamoeba griffini	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba griffini.
acanthamoeba lugdunensis (organism)	Any amoebic organism that can be assigned to the species Acanthamoeba lugdunensis.
amoebozoa luehe 1913, emend. cavalier-smith 1998, 2004	A supergroup (some say phylum) of ameboid EUKARYOTES, comprising ARCHAMOEBAE; LOBOSEA; and MYCETOZOA.
cdisc sdtm terminology	The terminology subset that includes terms pertaining to the CDISC Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM).
cdisc sdtm microorganism terminology	Microorganisms, bacteria, fungi and other organisms.
acanthamoeba castellanii	En art jordlevande amöbor som tillhör familljen Acanthamoebidae. Den kan orsaka hjärninflammation och hornhinneinflammation hos människor.
keratitides, acanthamoeba	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
ketoconazole	Broad spectrum antifungal agent used for long periods at high doses, especially in immunosuppressed patients.
infection protozoal	Infections with unicellular organisms formerly members of the subkingdom Protozoa.
corneal infection	A disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the cornea.
crn	The transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye consisting of five layers: stratified squamous CORNEAL EPITHELIUM; BOWMAN MEMBRANE; CORNEAL STROMA; DESCEMET MEMBRANE; and mesenchymal CORNEAL ENDOTHELIUM. It serves as the first refracting medium of the eye. It is structurally continuous with the SCLERA, avascular, receiving its nourishment by permeation through spaces between the lamellae, and is innervated by the ophthalmic division of the TRIGEMINAL NERVE via the ciliary nerves and those of the surrounding conjunctiva which together form plexuses. (Cline et al., Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
structure of eye proper	Organ with organ cavity which is connected to the optic nerve. Examples: There are only two eyeballs, the right and the left eyeballs..
acanthamoeba keratitides	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
disease, communicable	An illness caused by an infectious agent or its toxins that occurs through the direct or indirect transmission of the infectious agent or its products from an infected individual or via an animal, vector or the inanimate environment to a susceptible animal or human host.
eye infection	Infection, moderate to severe, caused by bacteria, fungi, or viruses, which occurs either on the external surface of the eye or intraocularly with probable inflammation, visual impairment, or blindness.
eye infection, parasitic	Mild to severe infections of the eye and its adjacent structures (adnexa) by adult or larval protozoan or metazoan parasites.
cornea inflamed	Inflammation of the cornea.
parasitic dis	Infections or infestations with PARASITES. They are often contracted through contact with an intermediate vector, but may occur as the result of direct exposure.
corneal infection (disorder)	A disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the cornea.
infectious keratitis	Inflammation of the cornea secondary to an infectious process.
corneas	The transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye consisting of five layers: stratified squamous CORNEAL EPITHELIUM; BOWMAN MEMBRANE; CORNEAL STROMA; DESCEMET MEMBRANE; and mesenchymal CORNEAL ENDOTHELIUM. It serves as the first refracting medium of the eye. It is structurally continuous with the SCLERA, avascular, receiving its nourishment by permeation through spaces between the lamellae, and is innervated by the ophthalmic division of the TRIGEMINAL NERVE via the ciliary nerves and those of the surrounding conjunctiva which together form plexuses. (Cline et al., Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
cornea	The transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye consisting of five layers: stratified squamous CORNEAL EPITHELIUM; BOWMAN MEMBRANE; CORNEAL STROMA; DESCEMET MEMBRANE; and mesenchymal CORNEAL ENDOTHELIUM. It serves as the first refracting medium of the eye. It is structurally continuous with the SCLERA, avascular, receiving its nourishment by permeation through spaces between the lamellae, and is innervated by the ophthalmic division of the TRIGEMINAL NERVE via the ciliary nerves and those of the surrounding conjunctiva which together form plexuses. (Cline et al., Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
eye structure	Organ with organ cavity which is connected to the optic nerve. Examples: There are only two eyeballs, the right and the left eyeballs..
keratitis, acanthamoeba	Infection of the cornea by an ameboid protozoan which may cause corneal ulceration leading to blindness.
inflamm	A pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions. It is usually manifested by typical signs of pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
eye--infections	Infection, moderate to severe, caused by bacteria, fungi, or viruses, which occurs either on the external surface of the eye or intraocularly with probable inflammation, visual impairment, or blindness.
parasitic eye infection	Mild to severe infections of the eye and its adjacent structures (adnexa) by adult or larval protozoan or metazoan parasites.
keratitis	Inflammation of the cornea.
diseases, parasitic	Infections or infestations with PARASITES. They are often contracted through contact with an intermediate vector, but may occur as the result of direct exposure.
corneal infection nos	A disorder characterized by an infectious process involving the cornea.
keratitis caused by infection	Inflammation of the cornea secondary to an infectious process.
human cornea	The transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye consisting of five layers: stratified squamous CORNEAL EPITHELIUM; BOWMAN MEMBRANE; CORNEAL STROMA; DESCEMET MEMBRANE; and mesenchymal CORNEAL ENDOTHELIUM. It serves as the first refracting medium of the eye. It is structurally continuous with the SCLERA, avascular, receiving its nourishment by permeation through spaces between the lamellae, and is innervated by the ophthalmic division of the TRIGEMINAL NERVE via the ciliary nerves and those of the surrounding conjunctiva which together form plexuses. (Cline et al., Dictionary of Visual Science, 4th ed)
bulbus oculi	Organ with organ cavity which is connected to the optic nerve. Examples: There are only two eyeballs, the right and the left eyeballs..
ocular infections (smq)	Three main forms: affecting the cornea and conjunctiva; endophthalmitis (infection inside the eye); infections of the ocular adnexa and orbit. Treatment of eye infections is based on severity of symptoms and magnitude of possible outcome. Severe conjunctivitis requires aggressive management with broad spectrum antibiotics. Vision loss can occur despite treatment. Patients who have had recent surgery are at risk for developing endophthalmitis. Numerous bacterial and fungal organisms can cause ocular infections.
worm, thorny-headed	A phylum of parasitic worms, closely related to tapeworms and containing two genera: Moniliformis, which sometimes infects man, and Macracanthorhynchus, which infects swine.
hormorhynchus	A genus of roundworms of the phylum Acanthocephala, parasitic in rats, mice, hamsters, dogs and cats. Occasional infection in man produces inflammation and ulceration of the intestinal mucosa.
phylum: acanthocephala	A phylum of parasitic worms, closely related to tapeworms and containing two genera: Moniliformis, which sometimes infects man, and Macracanthorhynchus, which infects swine.
entityclassanimal	multicellular organisms whose classification is based on tissues or organ arrangement; heterotrophic; use sexual reproduction in which a fertilized egg develops in stages; vertebrate and invertebrate types; index specific animal when possible.
spiny-headed worms	A phylum of parasitic worms, closely related to tapeworms and containing two genera: Moniliformis, which sometimes infects man, and Macracanthorhynchus, which infects swine.
parasite worm, nos	Commonly known as parasitic worms, this group includes the ACANTHOCEPHALA; NEMATODA; and PLATYHELMINTHS. Some authors consider certain species of LEECHES that can become temporarily parasitic as helminths.
thorny headed worm	A phylum of parasitic worms, closely related to tapeworms and containing two genera: Moniliformis, which sometimes infects man, and Macracanthorhynchus, which infects swine.
phylum acanthocephala	A phylum of parasitic worms, closely related to tapeworms and containing two genera: Moniliformis, which sometimes infects man, and Macracanthorhynchus, which infects swine.
animal (organism)	multicellular organisms whose classification is based on tissues or organ arrangement; heterotrophic; use sexual reproduction in which a fertilized egg develops in stages; vertebrate and invertebrate types; index specific animal when possible.
thorny-headed worm (organism)	A phylum of parasitic worms, closely related to tapeworms and containing two genera: Moniliformis, which sometimes infects man, and Macracanthorhynchus, which infects swine.
parasitic worms	Commonly known as parasitic worms, this group includes the ACANTHOCEPHALA; NEMATODA; and PLATYHELMINTHS. Some authors consider certain species of LEECHES that can become temporarily parasitic as helminths.
cells spur	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
acanthocytosis with neurologic disorder	An inherited autosomal disorder that is characterized by neurodegeneration; orofacial and buccal DYSKINESIAS; CHOREA; and thorny-looking red cells (ACANTHOCYTES). This disorder is due to mutations of chorein which is important in protein trafficking and is encoded by Vps13a on chromosome 9q21.
crenated cell	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
lathos	An extremely rare inborn error of sterol biosynthesis with manifestations of facial dysmorphism, congenital anomalies (including limb and kidney anomalies), failure to thrive, developmental delay and liver disease. Only 4 cases have been reported in the literature to date. Lathosterolosis is due to mutations in the SC5D gene (11q23.3). A mutation in this gene leads to a deficiency in 3-beta-hydroxysteroid-delta-5-desaturase, which is necessary in the conversion of lathosterol into 7-dehydrocholesterol. This prevents the synthesis of cholesterol, which among other functions acts as a structural lipid, a precursor for bile acids and steroid hormones, and is necessary for the maturation of hedgehog morphogens during embryonic development. Inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
acanthocytes	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
erythrocyte differentiation	The production of red blood cells (ERYTHROCYTES). In humans, erythrocytes are produced by the YOLK SAC in the first trimester; by the liver in the second trimester; by the BONE MARROW in the third trimester and after birth. In normal individuals, the erythrocyte count in the peripheral blood remains relatively constant implying a balance between the rate of erythrocyte production and rate of destruction.
spiny prickle cell	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
hematopoietic system	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
acanthocyte [dup] (morphologic abnormality)	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
poikilocytosis	The presence of abnormally shaped erythrocytes. [HPO:probinson]
acanthocyte	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
erythrocyte production	The production of red blood cells (ERYTHROCYTES). In humans, erythrocytes are produced by the YOLK SAC in the first trimester; by the liver in the second trimester; by the BONE MARROW in the third trimester and after birth. In normal individuals, the erythrocyte count in the peripheral blood remains relatively constant implying a balance between the rate of erythrocyte production and rate of destruction.
spur cell	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
hematologic organ system	The blood-making organs and tissues, principally the bone marrow and lymph nodes.
abnormally shaped red blood cells present in blood	The presence of abnormally shaped erythrocytes. [HPO:probinson]
abnormality of red blood cells	Any structural abnormality of erythrocytes (red-blood cells). [HPO:probinson]
acanthrocyte	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
choreoacanthocytosis	An inherited autosomal disorder that is characterized by neurodegeneration; orofacial and buccal DYSKINESIAS; CHOREA; and thorny-looking red cells (ACANTHOCYTES). This disorder is due to mutations of chorein which is important in protein trafficking and is encoded by Vps13a on chromosome 9q21.
huntington disease-like 2	A severe neurodegenerative disorder considered part of the neuroacanthocytosis syndromes with a triad of movement, psychiatric and cognitive abnormalities. Prevalence and incidence are unknown but this disease is very rare, with fewer than 50 families reported worldwide. Patients may develop psychiatric abnormalities as the initial manifestation, with later appearance of chorea, parkinsonism and dystonia. The disease may evolve from chorea to a more bradykinetic, dystonic phenotype, or remain parkinsonian. Caused by expanded trinucleotide repeats of the JPH3 junctophilin 3 gene (16q24.3). Affected individuals have CTG/CAG repeat expansions of 41-59 triplets (normal population: 6-27). Follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. A relentlessly progressive disorder with a poor prognosis.
x-linked mcleod syndrome	A form of neuroacanthocytosis with clinical characteristics of a Huntington's disease-like phenotype with an involuntary hyperkinetic movement disorder, psychiatric manifestations and cognitive alterations, and biochemically by absence of the Kx antigen and by weak expression of the Kell antigens. The disorder is very rare and a few hundred cases are suspected worldwide. About one third of patients present with chorea indistinguishable from that observed in Huntington disease and most patients will develop chorea during the course of the disease. Caused by mutations of the XK gene (Xp21.1) encoding the XK protein, which includes the Kx erythrocyte antigen. Most pathogenic mutations are nonsense mutations or deletions predicting an absent or shortened XK protein lacking the Kell protein-binding site.
abnormal;red blood cells	Any structural abnormality of erythrocytes (red-blood cells). [HPO:probinson]
acanthocytosis, chorea	An inherited autosomal disorder that is characterized by neurodegeneration; orofacial and buccal DYSKINESIAS; CHOREA; and thorny-looking red cells (ACANTHOCYTES). This disorder is due to mutations of chorein which is important in protein trafficking and is encoded by Vps13a on chromosome 9q21.
crenated red blood cell	Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
spur cell anemia	Acanthocytosis is a type of poikilocytosis characterized by the presence of spikes on the cell surface. The cells have an irregular shape resembling many-pointed stars. [HPO:probinson]
abnormal red blood cell, nos	Oxygen-carrying RED BLOOD CELLS in mammalian blood that are abnormal in structure or function.
acantholysis	Separation of the prickle cells of the stratum spinosum of the epidermis, resulting in atrophy of the prickle cell layer. It is seen in diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris (see PEMPHIGUS) and DARIER DISEASE.
morphology	A light microscopic finding that describes the cellular characteristics and architectural patterns of cell populations in a tissue sample.
isolated follicular keratosis	A rare, usually solitary, benign epithelial tumor of the skin that appears to arise from a hair follicle. It usually develops in the head and neck region as a nodular lesion with a central keratotic plug.
skin adenoid squamous cell carcinoma	A histologic variant of squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the skin. It is characterized by loosening of the intercellular bridges between the malignant cells which results in acantholysis.
acantholytic acanthoma	A benign epithelial neoplasm of the skin. It presents as a papular or nodular lesion. Morphologically, it is characterized by the presence of hyperkeratosis, acanthosis, papillomatosis, and prominent acantholysis.
skin pseudovascular squamous cell carcinoma	A squamous cell carcinoma of the skin histologically resembling a vascular tumor due to extreme acantholysis.
squamous cell breast carcinoma, acantholytic variant	A squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the breast parenchyma and is characterized by cellular discohesion resulting in a pseudoangiosarcomatous pattern.
laryngeal acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma	A rare variant of squamous cell carcinoma that arises from the larynx. It is characterized by acantholysis of the tumor cells that results in the formation of pseudolumina that resemble glandular structures.
palmoplantar hyperkeratosis with arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy	A recessively inherited condition with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia/cardiomyopathy and a cutaneous phenotype with manifestation of peculiar woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma. The disease was first described in families originating from the Greek island of Naxos. Woolly hair appears from birth, palmoplantar keratoderma develops during the first year of life and cardiomyopathy is clinically manifested by adolescence with 100% penetrance. Symptoms of right heart failure appear during the end stages of the disease.
epidermolysis bullosa simplex due to plakophilin deficiency (disorder)	A suprabasal subtype of epidermolysis bullosa simplex characterized by generalized superficial erosions and less commonly blistering. Prevalence is unknown but 11 cases have been reported to date. Onset of the disease is usually at birth with skin blistering and generalized erythema which rapidly regresses. The disease is due to mutations in the PKP1 (1q32) gene encoding plakophilin-1. Transmission is autosomal recessive.
abnormality of epidermal morphology	An abnormality of the morphology of the epidermis. [HPO:probinson]
lysis	Tissue structure disintegration and destruction due to action of endogenous or/and exogenous lytic substances which include but not limited to naturally occurring or laboratory designed proteolytic enzymes, glycosidases, detergents, pore-forming proteins, immune complexes, etc. Tissue lysis plays role in pathogenesis of a number of conditions e.g. protozoal infections, ischemic tissue injury, and autoimmune disorders. It is also used as a basis for non-surgical treatment modality to remove or minimize presence of abnormal tissue, e.g. adhesions.
lytic	Tissue structure disintegration and destruction due to action of endogenous or/and exogenous lytic substances which include but not limited to naturally occurring or laboratory designed proteolytic enzymes, glycosidases, detergents, pore-forming proteins, immune complexes, etc. Tissue lysis plays role in pathogenesis of a number of conditions e.g. protozoal infections, ischemic tissue injury, and autoimmune disorders. It is also used as a basis for non-surgical treatment modality to remove or minimize presence of abnormal tissue, e.g. adhesions.
pemphigus	Group of chronic blistering diseases characterized histologically by ACANTHOLYSIS and blister formation within the EPIDERMIS.
pemphigus vulgaris	An autoimmune blistering disorder. It is characterized by the presence of painful blisters and erosions in the skin and mucous membranes.
herpetiform pemphigus	A rare superficial pemphigus disease characterized by severe intractable pruritus with erythematous or urticarial plaques and vesicles organized in a herpetiform pattern. Mucosae are generally spared. Eosinophilia in peripheral blood and low titers of circulating autoantibodies are observed in many cases. Histologically, minimal or no apparent acantholysis is associated.
cytolysis	The rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm. [UniProtKB-KW:KW-0204]
dariers disease	slowly progressive autosomal dominant disorder of keratinization with papules on the seborrheic areas of the body that coalesce to form plaques which may become crusted and secondarily infected; lesions may darken and fuse over time to form papillomatous and warty malodorous growths.
acantholyses	Separation of the prickle cells of the stratum spinosum of the epidermis, resulting in atrophy of the prickle cell layer. It is seen in diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris (see PEMPHIGUS) and DARIER DISEASE.
benign familial chronic pemphigus	An autosomal dominantly inherited skin disorder characterized by recurrent eruptions of vesicles and BULLAE mainly on the neck, axillae, and groin. Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene (encoding the secretory pathway Ca2++/Mn2++ ATPase 1 (SPCA1)) cause this disease. It is clinically and histologically similar to DARIER DISEASE - both have abnormal, unstable DESMOSOMES between KERATINOCYTES and defective CALCIUM-TRANSPORTING ATPASES. It is unrelated to PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS though it closely resembles that disease.
acantholysis (morphologic abnormality)	Separation of the prickle cells of the stratum spinosum of the epidermis, resulting in atrophy of the prickle cell layer. It is seen in diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris (see PEMPHIGUS) and DARIER DISEASE.
keratosis nigricans	A circumscribed melanosis consisting of a brown-pigmented, velvety verrucosity or fine papillomatosis appearing in the axillae and other body folds. It occurs in association with endocrine disorders, underlying malignancy, administration of certain drugs, or as in inherited disorder.
keratosis; nigricans	A circumscribed melanosis consisting of a brown-pigmented, velvety verrucosity or fine papillomatosis appearing in the axillae and other body folds. It occurs in association with endocrine disorders, underlying malignancy, administration of certain drugs, or as in inherited disorder.
acanthosis nigricans	A circumscribed melanosis consisting of a brown-pigmented, velvety verrucosity or fine papillomatosis appearing in the axillae and other body folds. It occurs in association with endocrine disorders, underlying malignancy, administration of certain drugs, or as in inherited disorder.
hair-an syndrome	A condition characterized by hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance, and acanthosis nigricans, typically associated with obesity in teenage girls. It is considered to be a subtype of polycystic ovarian syndrome, but may occur in male individuals. Etiology is unclear, but some cases may be associated with mutations affecting the tyrosine kinase domain of the insulin receptor.
acanthosis	Diffuse hypertrophy or thickening of the stratum spinosum of the epidermis (prickle cell layer of the skin). []
